abbotship: The state or office of an abbot.
abietinic: Of or pertaining to abietin; as, abietinic acid.
abirritant: A medicine that diminishes irritation.
aboard: On board; into or within a ship or boat; hence, into or withina railway car.
accentor: One who sings the leading part; the director or leader. [Obs.]
acclamation: A representation, in sculpture or on medals, of peopleexpressing joy. Acclamation medals are those on which laudatoryacclamations are recorded. Elmes.
acephal: One of the Acephala.
acetarious: Used in salads; as, acetarious plants.
achroous: Colorless; achromatic.
acold: Cold. [Obs.] "Poor Tom's acold." Shak.
acreage: Acres collectively; as, the acreage of a farm or a country.
adamantean: Of adamant; hard as adamant. Milton.
ademption: The revocation or taking away of a grant donation, legacy, orthe like. Bouvier.
adequate: Equal to some requirement; proportionate, or correspondent;fully sufficient; as, powers adequate to a great work; an adequatedefinition.Ireland had no adequate champion. De Quincey.
adequately: In an adequate manner.
adiaphory: Indifference. [Obs.]
adjudger: One who adjudges.
advoutress: An adulteress. [Obs.] Bacon.
aery: An aerie.
aflutter: In a flutter; agitated.
agaric: A fungus of the genus Agaricus, of many species, of which thecommon mushroom is an example.
alborak: The imaginary milk-white animal on which Mohammed was said tohave been carried up to heaven; a white mule.
alien: To alienate; to estrange; to transfer, as property orownership. [R.] "It the son alien lands." Sir M. Hale.The prince was totally aliened from all thoughts of . . . themarriage. Clarendon.
alisphenoid: The alisphenoid bone.
almner: An almoner. [Obs.] Spenser.
alveolar: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, alveoli or little cells,sacs, or sockets. Alveolar processes, the processes of the maxillarybones, containing the sockets of the teeth.
amasser: One who amasses.
amortizement: Same as Amortization.
amphineura: A division of Mollusca remarkable for the bilateral symmetry ofthe organs and the arrangement of the nerves.
anagram: Literally, the letters of a word read backwards, but in itsusual wider sense, the change or one word or phrase into another bythe transposition of its letters. Thus Galenus becomes angelus;William Noy (attorney-general to Charles I., and a laborious man) maybe turned into I moyl in law.
ananthous: Destitute of flowers; flowerless.
anchored: Having the extremities turned back, like the flukes of ananchor; as, an anchored cross. [Sometimes spelt ancred.]
anecdote: Unpublished narratives. Burke.
angrily: In an angry manner; under the influence of anger.
angulometer: An instrument for measuring external angles.
anhistous: Without definite structure; as, an anhistous membrane.
anthropoid: Resembling man; -- applied especially to certain apes, as theourang or gorilla.-- n.
anticonstitutional: Opposed to the constitution; unconstitutional.
antimacassar: A cover for the back or arms of a chair or sofa, etc., toprevent them from being soiled by macassar or other oil from thehair.
antimeter: A modification of the quadrant, for measuring small angles.[Obs.]
antipathic: Belonging to antipathy; opposite; contrary; allopathic.
antispast: A foot of four syllables, the first and fourth short, and thesecond and third long.
anyhow: In any way or manner whatever; at any rate; in any event.Anyhow, it must be acknowledged to be not a simple selforiginatederror. J. H. Newman.Anyhow, the languages of the two nations were closely allied. E. A.Freeman.
anythingarian: One who holds to no particular creed or dogma.
apatite: Native phosphate of lime, occurring usually in six-sidedprisms, color often pale green, transparent or translucent.
apodosis: The consequent clause or conclusion in a conditional sentence,expressing the result, and thus distinguished from the protasis orclause which expresses a condition. Thus, in the sentence, "Though heslay me, yet will I trust in him," the former clause is the protasis,and the latter the apodosis.
apogean: Connected with the apogee; as, apogean (neap) tides, whichoccur when the moon has passed her apogee.
apophlegmatism: The action of apophlegmatics.
applique: Ornamented with a pattern (which has been cut out of anothercolor or stuff) applied or transferred to a foundation; as, appliquélace; appliqué work.
appointive: Subject to appointment; as, an appointive office. [R.]
arbitration: The hearing and determination of a cause between parties incontroversy, by a person or persons chosen by the parties.
arc: A portion of a curved line; as, the arc of a circle or of anellipse.
architectress: A female architect.
arietation: A short aria, or air. "A military ariette." Sir W. Scott.
ariose: Characterized by melody, as distinguished from harmony.Mendelssohn wants the ariose beauty of Handel; vocal melody is nothis forte; the interest of his airs harmonic. Foreign Quart. Rev.
aristarch: A severe critic. Knowles.
arithmancy: Divination by means of numbers.
armorican: A native of Armorica.
ascian: One of the Ascii.
asiaticism: Something peculiar to Asia or the Asiatics.
asterisk: The figure of a star, thus,
attritus: Matter pulverized by attrition.
aught: Anything; any part. [Also written ought.]There failed not aught of any good thing which the Lord has spoken.Josh. xxi. 45But go, my son, and see if aught be wanting. Addison.
augmentable: Capable of augmentation. Walsh.
auncel: A rude balance for weighing, and a kind of weight, formerlyused in England. Halliwell.
aventine: Pertaining to Mons Aventinus, one of the seven hills on whichRome stood. Bryant.
averse: To turn away. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
awn: The bristle or beard of barley, oats, grasses, etc., or anysimilar bristlelike appendage; arista. Gray.
baenomere: One of the somites (arthromeres) that make up the thorax ofArthropods. Packard.
ballooner: One who goes up in a balloon; an aëronaut.
bannition: The act of expulsion.[Obs.] Abp. Laud.
barrow: A wicker case, in which salt is put to drain.
bat: Shale or bituminous shale. Kirwan.
bayamo: A violent thunder squall occurring on the south coast of Cuba,esp. near Bayamo. The gusts, called bayamo winds, are modified foehnwinds.
beaumontague: A cement used in making joints, filling cracks, etc.  For iron,the principal constituents are iron borings and sal ammoniac; forwood, white lead or litharge, whiting, and linseed oil.
bemock: To mock; to ridicule.Bemock the modest moon. Shak.
bengalese: Of or pertaining to Bengal.-- n. sing. & pl. A native or natives of Bengal.
besmearer: One that besmears.
bestiary: A treatise on beasts; esp., one of the moralizing orallegorical beast tales written in the Middle Ages.
biangular: Having two angles or corners.
bilaciniate: Doubly fringed.
binary: Compounded or consisting of two things or parts; characterizedby two (things). Binary arithmetic, that in which numbers areexpressed according to the binary scale, or in which two figuresonly, 0 and 1, are used, in lieu of ten; the cipher multiplyingeverything by two, as in common arithmetic by ten. Thus, 1 is one; 10is two; 11 is three; 100 is four, etc. Davies & Peck.-- Binary compound (Chem.), a compound of two elements, or of anelement and a compound performing the function of an element, or oftwo compounds performing the function of elements.-- Binary logarithms, a system of logarithms devised by Euler forfacilitating musical calculations, in which 1 is logarithm of 2,instead of 10, as in the common logarithms, and the modulus 1.442695instead of .43429448.-- Binary measure (Mus.), measure divisible by two or four; commontime.-- Binary nomenclature (Nat. Hist.), nomenclature in which the namesdesignate both genus and species.-- Binary scale (Arith.), a uniform scale of notation whose ratio istwo.-- Binary star (Astron.), a double star whose members have arevolution round their common center of gravity.-- Binary theory (Chem.), the theory that all chemical compoundsconsist of two constituents of opposite and unlike qualities.
biography: Of or relating to biology.-- Bi`o*log"ic*al*ly, adv.
bipetalous: Having two petals.
birdling: A little bird; a nestling.
blending: The method of laying on different tints so that they may mingletogether while wet, and shade into each other insensibly. Weale.
bloodroot: A plant (Sanguinaria Canadensis), with a red root and red sap,and bearing a pretty, white flower in early spring; -- called alsopuccoon, redroot, bloodwort, tetterwort, turmeric, and Indian paint.It has acrid emetic properties, and the rootstock is used as astimulant expectorant. See Sanguinaria.
bonapartean: Of or pertaining to Napoleon Bonaparte or his family.
bosporus: A strait or narrow sea between two seas, or a lake and a seas;as, the Bosporus (formerly the Thracian Bosporus) or Strait ofConstantinople, between the Black Sea and Sea of Marmora; theCimmerian Bosporus, between the Black Sea and Sea of Azof. [Writtenalso Bosphorus.]
boulangism: The spirit or principles of a French political movementidentified with Gen. Georges Boulanger (d. 1891), whose militarismand advocacy of revenge on Germany attracted to him a miscellaneousparty of monarchists and Republican malcontents. -- Bou*lan"gist (#),n.
bournless: Without a bourn or limit.
bovate: An oxgang, or as much land as an ox can plow in a year; anancient measure of land, of indefinite quantity, but usuallyestimated at fifteen acres.
brainish: Hot-headed; furious. [R.] Shak.
brassiness: The state, conditions, or quality of being brassy. [Colloq.]
breathing: A mark to indicate aspiration or its absence. See Roughbreathing, Smooth breathing, below. Breathing place. (a) A pause."That cæsura, or breathing place, in the midst of the verse." Sir P.Sidney. (b) A vent.-- Breathing time, pause; relaxation. Bp. Hall.-- Breathing while, time sufficient for drawing breath; a shorttime. Shak.-- Rough breathing (spiritus asper) (. See 2d Asper, n.-- Smooth breathing (spiritus lenis), a mark (') indicating theabsence of the sound of h, as in 'ie`nai (ienai).
brocatello: Same as Brocatel.
brochette: A small spit or skewer.
bromidiom: A conventional comment or saying, such as those characteristicof bromides. [Slang]
bubukle: A red pimple. [R.] Shak.
bulge: The bilge of a vessel. See Bilge, 2. Bulge ways. (Naut.) SeeBilge ways.
by: Out of the common path; aside; -- used in composition, givingthe meaning of something aside, secondary, or incidental, orcollateral matter, a thing private or avoiding notice; as, by-line,by-place, by-play, by-street. It was formerly more freely used incomposition than it is now; as, by-business, by-concernment, by-design, by-interest, etc.
cack: To ease the body by stool; to go to stool. Pope.
callet: A trull or prostitute; a scold or gossip. [Obs.] [Written alsocallat.]
cannon: A hollow cylindrical piece carried by a revolving shaft, onwhich it may, however, revolve independently.
cannulated: Hollow; affording a passage through its interior length forwire, thread, etc.; as, a cannulated (suture) needle. [Written alsocanulated.]
capnomor: A limpid, colorless oil with a peculiar odor, obtained frombeech tar. Watts.
cappeak: The front piece of a cap; -- now more commonly called visor.
captiousness: Captious disposition or manner.
carnalize: To make carnal; to debase to carnality.A sensual and carnalized spirit. John Scott.
cartography: The act business of forming chart's or maps.
casemate: A bombproof chamber, usually of masonry, in which cannon may beplaced, to be fired through embrasures; or one capable of being usedas a magazine, or for quartering troops.
castled: Having a castle or castles; supporting a castle; as, a castledheight or crag.
castlery: The government of a castle. Blount.
centring: See Centring.
cephalanthium: Same as Anthodium.
cercus: See Cercopod.
ceriferous: Producing wax.
chalazogamy: A process of fecundation in which the pollen tube penetrates tothe embryosac through the tissue of the chalaza, instead of enteringthrough the micropyle. It was originally discovered by Treub inCasuarina, and has since been found to occur regularly in thefamilies Betulaceæ and Juglandaceæ. Partial chalazogamy is found inUlmus, the tube here penetrating the nucleus midway between thechalaza and micropyle. --Chal`a*zo*gam"ic (#), a.
chastely: In a chaste manner; with purity.
chebacco: A narrow-sterned boat formerly much used in the Newfoundlandfisheries; -- called also pinkstern and chebec. Bartlett.
chemosynthesis: Synthesis of organic compounds by energy derived from chemicalchanges or reactions. Chemosynthesis of carbohydrates occurs in thenitrite bacteria through the oxidation of ammonia to nitrous acid,and in the nitrate bacteria through the conversion of nitrous intonitric acid. -- Chem`o*syn*thet"ic (#), a.
chinky: Full of chinks or fissures; gaping; opening in narrow clefts.Dryden.
chioppine: Same as Chopine, n.
chloride: A binary compound of chlorine with another element or radical;as, chloride of sodium (common salt). Chloride of ammonium, salammoniac.-- Chloride of lime, bleaching powder; a grayish white substance,CaOClcalcium hypochlorite. See Hypochlorous acid, under Hypochlorous.-- Mercuric chloride, corrosive sublimate.
chondritic: Granular; pertaining to, or having the granular structurecharacteristic of, the class of meteorites called chondrites.
chopness: A kind of spade. [Eng.]
chrestomathy: A selection of passages, with notes, etc., to be used inacquiring a language; as, a Hebrew chrestomathy.
chunk: A short, thick piece of anything. [Colloq. U. S. & Prov. Eng.]
circumferential: Pertaining to the circumference; encompassing; encircling;circuitous. Parkhurst.
circumfuse: To pour round; to spread round.His army circumfused on either wing. Milton.
circumgyrate: To roll or turn round; to cause to perform a rotary or circularmotion. Ray.
circumspectly: In a circumspect manner; cautiously; warily.
citable: Capable of being cited.
clandestinity: Privacy or secrecy. [R.]
clarigate: To declare war with certain ceremonies. [Obs.] Holland.
climatic: Of or pertaining to a climate; depending on, or limited by, aclimate.
clinkant: See Clnquant.
clione: A genus of naked pteropods. One species (Clione papilonacea),abundant in the Arctic Ocean, constitutes a part of the food of theGreenland whale. It is sometimes incorrectly called Clio.
coadunate: United at the base, as contiguous lobes of a leaf.
codical: Ralating to a codex, or a code.
colaborer: One who labors with another; an associate in labor.
colemanite: A hydrous borate of lime occurring in transparent colorless orwhite crystals, also massive, in Southern California.
collapse: Extreme depression or sudden failing o
colley: See Collie.
collimation: The act of collimating; the adjustment of the line of thesights, as the axial line of the telescope of an instrument, into itsproper position relative to the other parts of the instrument. Errorof collimation, the deviation of the line collimation of anastronomical instrument from the position it ought to have withrespect to the axis of motion of the instrument.-- Line of collimation, the axial line of the telescope of anastronomical or geodetic instrument, or the line which passes throughthe optical center of the object glass and the intersection of thecross wires at its focus.
colling: An embrace; dalliance. [Obs.] Halliwell.
communalistic: Pertaining to communalism.
concatenation: A series of links united; a series or order of things dependingon each other, as if linked together; a chain, a succession.The stoics affirmed a fatal, unchangeable concatenation of causes,reaching even to the illicit acts of man's will. South.A concatenation of explosions. W. Irving.
concupy: Concupiscence.
conducibleness: Quality of being conducible.
congenitally: In a congenital manner.
connivency: Connivance. [Obs.]
consolidant: Serving to unite or consolidate; having the quality ofconsolidating or making firm.
conspirer: One who conspires; a conspirator.
consulage: A duty or tax paid by merchants for the protection of theirconnerce by means of a consul in a foreign place.
coopering: Work done by a cooper in making or repairing barrels, casks,etc.; the business of a cooper.
cosecant: The secant of the complement of an arc or angle. See Illust. ofFunctions.
cosening: Anything done deceitfully, and which could not be properlydesignated by any special name, whether belonging to contracts ornot. Burrill.
costermonger: An apple seller; a hawker of, or dealer in, any kind of fruitor vegetables; a fruiterer. [Written also costardmonger.]
cote: To go side by side with; hence, to pass by; to outrun and getbefore; as, a dog cotes a hare. [Obs.] Drayton.We coted them on the way, and hither are they coming. Shak.
cotinga: A bird of the family Cotingidæ, including numerous bright-colored South American species; -- called also chatterers.
courtesanship: Harlotry.
creekfish: The chub sucker.
crenature: A rounded tooth or notch of a crenate leaf, or any part that iscrenate; -- called also crenelle.
crenel: See Crenelle.
crined: Having the hair of a different tincture from the rest of thebody; as, a charge crined of a red tincture.
crippler: A wooden tool used in graining leather. Knight.
crowfoot: The genus Ranunculus, of many species; some are common weeds,others are flowering plants of considerable beauty.
cuddy: A lever mounted on a tripod for lifting stones, leveling uprailroad ties, etc. Knight.
cumber: To rest upon as a troublesome or useless weight or load; to beburdensome or oppressive to; to hinder or embarrass in attaining anobject, to obstruct or occupy uselessly; to embarrass; to trouble.Why asks he what avails him not in fight, And would but cumber andretard his flight Dryden.Martha was cumbered about much serving. Luke x. 40.Cut it down; why cumbereth it the ground Luke xiii. 7.The multiplying variety of arguments, especially frivolous ones, . .. but cumbers the memory. Locke.
cumbrian: Pertaining to Cumberland, England, or to a system of rocksfound there. Cumbrian system (Geol.), the slate or graywacke systemof rocks, now included in the Cambrian or Silurian system; -- socalled because most prominent at Cumberland.
cuminil: A substance, analogous to benzil, obtained from oil of caraway.
curdiness: The state of being curdy.
curvature: The amount of degree of bending of a mathematical curve, or thetendency at any point to depart from a tangent drawn to the curve atthat point. Aberrancy of curvature (Geom.), the deviation of a curvefrom a curcular form. -Absolute curvature. See under Absolute.-- Angle of curvature (Geom.), one that expresses the amount ofcurvature of a curve.-- Chord of curvature. See under Chord.-- Circle of curvature. See Osculating circle of a curve, underCircle.-- Curvature of the spine (Med.), an abnormal curving of the spine,especially in a lateral direction.-- Radius of curvature, the radius of the circle of curvature, orosculatory circle, at any point of a curve.
cyclamin: A white amorphous substance, regarded as a glucoside, extractedfrom the corm of Cyclamen Europæum.
cyrtostyle: A circular projecting portion.
dalesman: One living in a dale; -- a term applied particularly to theinhabitants of the valleys in the north of England, Norway, etc.Macaulay.
daunter: One who daunts.
dauphin: The title of the eldest son of the king of France, and heir tothe crown. Since the revolution of 1830, the title has beendiscontinued.
deary: A dear; a darling. [Familiar]
decidence: A falling off. [R.] Sir T. Browne.
defamation: Act of injuring another's reputation by any slanderouscommunication, written or oral; the wrong of maliciously injuring thegood name of another; slander; detraction; calumny; aspersion.
delayingly: By delays. [R.] Tennyson.
demesmerize: To relieve from mesmeric influence. See Mesmerize.
denominationalism: A denominational or class spirit or policy; devotion to theinterests of a sect or denomination.
depainter: One who depaints. [Obs.]
depreciative: Tending, or intended, to depreciate; expressing depreciation;undervaluing.-- De*pre"ci*a`tive*ly, adv.
dermohaemal: Pertaining to, or in relation with, both dermal and hæmalstructures; as, the dermohæmal spines or ventral fin rays of fishes.
dethronization: Dethronement. [Obs.] Speed.
dextrally: (adv. Towards the right; as, the hands of a watch rotatedextrally.
dextronic: Pertaining to, or derived from, dextrose; as, dextronic acid.Dextronic acid, a sirupy substance obtained by the partial oxidationof various carbohydrates, as dextrose, etc.
dichogamy: The condition of certain species of plants, in which thestamens and pistil do not mature simultaneously, so that these plantscan never fertilize themselves.
dichromate: A salt of chromic acid containing two equivalents of the acidradical to one of the base; -- called also bichromate.
dicrotism: A condition in which there are two beats or waves of thearterial pulse to each beat of the heart.
direptitious: Characterized by direption. [R.] Encyc. Dict.
discalced: Unshod; barefooted; -- in distinction from calced. "Thefoundation of houses of discalced friars." Cardinal Manning's St.Teresa.
discinct: Ungirded; loosely dressed. [R.] Sir W. Scott.
discontinuation: Breach or interruption of continuity; separation of parts in aconnected series; discontinuance.Upon any discontinuation of parts, made either by bubbles or byshaking the glass, the whole mercury falls. Sir I. Newton.
discoverment: Discovery. [Obs.]
dispauper: To deprive of the claim of a pauper to public support; todeprive of the privilege of suing in forma pauperis.
dispel: To drive away by scattering, or so to cause to vanish; to clearaway; to banish; to dissipate; as, to dispel a cloud, vapors, cares,doubts, illusions.[Satan] gently raised their fainting courage, and dispelled theirfears. Milton.I saw myself the lambent easy light Gild the brown horror, and dispelthe night. Dryden.
dissenterism: The spirit or principles of dissenters. Ed. Rev.
distortive: Causing distortion.
disulphuric: Applied to an acid having in each molecule two atoms of sulphurin the higher state of oxidation. Disulphuric acid, a thick oilyliquid, H2S2O7, called also Nordhausen acid (from Nordhausen in theHarts, where it was originally manufactured), fuming sulphuric acid,and especially pyrosulphuric acid. See under Pyrosulphuric.
divellicate: To pull in pieces. [Obs. or R.]
dogeless: Without a doge. Byron.
dolt: A heavy, stupid fellow; a blockhead; a numskull; an ignoramus;a dunce; a dullard.This Puck seems but a dreaming dolt. Drayton.
doorga: A Hindoo divinity, the consort of Siva, represented with tenarms. [Written also Durga.] Malcom.
dozenth: Twelfth. [R.]
dramatizable: Capable of being dramatized.
dreamingly: In a dreamy manner.
dromatherium: A small extinct triassic mammal from North Carolina, theearliest yet found in America.
dulciness: See Dulceness. [Obs.]
dullhead: A blockhead; a dolt. Ascham.
dynamometry: The art or process of measuring forces doing work.
eavesdrop: To stand under the eaves, near a window or at the door, of ahouse, to listen and learn what is said within doors; hence, tolisten secretly to what is said in private.To eavesdrop in disguises. Milton.
echelon: An arrangement of a body of troops when its divisions are drawnup in parallel lines each to the right or the left of the one inadvance of it, like the steps of a ladder in position for climbing.Also used adjectively; as, echelon distance. Upton (Tactics).
economize: To manage with economy; to use with prudence; to expend withfrugality; as, to economize one's income. [Written also economise.]Expenses in the city were to be economized. Jowett (Thucyd. ).Calculating how to economize time. W. Irving.
ecstatic: An enthusiast. [R.] Gauden.
eger: An impetuous flood; a bore. See Eagre.
elaqueate: To disentangle. [R.]
elayl: Olefiant gas or ethylene; -- so called by Berzelius from itsforming an oil combining with chlorine. [Written also elayle.] SeeEthylene.
electrometer: An instrument for measuring the quantity or intensity ofelectricity; also, sometimes, and less properly, applied to aninstrument which indicates the presence of electricity (usuallycalled an electroscope). Balance electrometer. See under Balance.
elutriation: The process of elutriating; a decanting or racking off by meansof water, as finer particles from heavier.
emacerate: To make lean or to become lean; to emaciate. [Obs.] Bullokar.
emasculator: One who, or that which, emasculates.
embarcation: Same as Embarkation.
embasement: Act of bringing down; depravation; deterioration. South.
emissary: An agent employed to advance, in a covert manner, the interestsof his employers; one sent out by any power that is at war withanother, to create dissatisfaction among the people of the latter.Buzzing emissaries fill the ears Of listening crowds with jealousiesand fears. Dryden.
encrinoidea: That order of the Crinoidea which includes most of the livingand many fossil forms, having jointed arms around the margin of theoral disk; -- also called Brachiata and Articulata. See Illusts.under Comatula and Crinoidea.
end: One of the yarns of the worsted warp in a Brussels carpet.
endome: To cover as with a dome.
engrailment: Indentation in curved lines, as of a line of division or theedge of an ordinary.
enstyle: To style; to name. [Obs.]
enuresis: An involuntary discharge of urine; incontinence of urine.
epigeal: Epigæous. [R.]
epigrammatizer: One who writes in an affectedly pointed style.Epigrammatizers of our English prose style. Coleridge.
epodic: Pertaining to, or resembling, an epode.
equirotal: Having wheels of the same size or diameter; having equalrotation. [R.]
eruca: An insect in the larval state; a caterpillar; a larva.
erupt: To cause to burst forth; to eject; as, to erupt lava. Huxley.
eschatology: The doctrine of the last or final things, as death, judgment,and the events therewith connected.
escrod: See Scrod, a young cod.
estaminet: A café, or room in a café, in which smoking is allowed.
estimate: A valuing or rating by the mind, without actually measuring,weighing, or the like; rough or approximate calculation; as, anestimate of the cost of a building, or of the quantity of water in apond.Weigh success in a moral balance, and our whole estimate is changed.J. C. Shairp.
ethylin: Any one of the several complex ethers of ethyl and glycerin.
etiological: Pertaining to, or inquiring into, causes; ætiological.
euclid: A Greek geometer of the 3d century
evacuate: To let blood [Obs.] Burton.
excarnification: The act of excarnificating or of depriving of flesh;excarnation. Johnson.
exchangeably: By way of exchange.
excitatory: Tending to excite; containing excitement; excitative.
exister: One who exists.
exultation: The act of exulting; lively joy at success or victory, or atany advantage gained; rapturous delight; triumph.His bosom swelled with exultation. Prescott.
eyewitness: One who sees a thing done; one who has ocular view anything.We . . . were eyewitnesses of his majesty. 2 Pet. i. 16.
facundity: Eloquence; readiness of speech. [Archaic]
fagotto: The bassoon; -- so called from being divided into parts forease of carriage, making, as it were, a small fagot.
fakir: An Oriental religious ascetic or begging monk. [Written alsofaquir anf fakeer.]
falter: To thrash in the chaff; also, to cleanse or sift, as barley.[Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.
fanfare: A flourish of trumpets, as in coming into the lists, etc.;also, a short and lively air performed on hunting horns during thechase.The fanfare announcing the arrival of the various Christian princes.Sir W. Scott.
farinose: Civered with a sort of white, mealy powder, as the leaves ofsome poplars, and the body of certain insects; mealy.
favas: See Favus, n., 2. Fairholt.
fer: Far. [Obs.] Chaucer.
fetidness: The quality or state of being fetid.
fid: A square bar of wood or iron, used to support the topmast,being passed through a hole or mortise at its heel, and resting onthe trestle trees.
fidge: See Fidget. [R.] Swift.
figuline: A piece of pottery ornamented with representations of naturalobjects.Whose figulines and rustic wares Scarce find him bread from day today. Longfellow.
fill: One of the thills or shafts of a carriage. Mortimer. Fillhorse, a thill horse. Shak.
firstling: Firstborn.All the firstling males. Deut. xv. 19.
flauto: A flute. Flaute piccolo ( Etym
flisk: To frisk; to skip; to caper. [Obs. Scot.] "The flisking flies."Gosson.
floorless: Having no floor.
fluentness: The quality of being fluent.
fluoride: A binary compound of fluorine with another element or radical.Calcium fluoride (Min.), fluorite, CaF2. See Fluorite.
folily: Foolishly. [Obs.] Chaucer.
forblack: Very black. [Obs.]As any raven's feathers it shone forblack. Chaucer.
foreappoint: To set, order, or appoint, beforehand. Sherwood.
forensical: Forensic. Berkley.
forger: One who forges, makes, of forms; a fabricator; a falsifier.
formidableness: The quality of being formidable, or adapted to excite dread.Boyle.
forsooth: In truth; in fact; certainly; very well; -- formerly used as anexpression of deference or respect, especially to woman; now usedironically or contemptuously.A fit man, forsooth, to govern a realm! Hayward.Our old English word forsooth has been changed for the French madam.Guardian.
forted: Furnished with, or guarded by, forts; strengthened or defended,as by forts. [R.] Shak.
fourth: The interval of two tones and a semitone, embracing fourdiatonic degrees of the scale; the subdominant of any key. TheFourth, specifically, un the United States, the fourth day of July,the anniversary of the declaration of American independence; as, tocelebrate the Fourth.
franklin: An English freeholder, or substantial householder. [Obs.]Chaucer.The franklin, a small landholder of those days. Sir J. Stephen.
freemason: One of an ancient and secret association or fraternity, said tohave been at first composed of masons or builders in stone, but nowconsisting of persons who are united for social enjoyment and mutualassistance.
frenchism: A French mode or characteristic; an idiom peculiar to theFrench language. Earle.
frustratory: Making void; rendering null; as, a frustratory appeal. [Obs.]Ayliffe.
gadwall: A large duck (Anas strepera), valued as a game bird, found inthe northern parts of Europe and America; -- called also gray duck.[Written also gaddwell.]
gainable: Capable of being obtained or reached. Sherwood.
galoot: A noisy, swaggering, or worthless fellow; a rowdy. [Slang, U.S.]
gascoynes: Gaskins. Beau & Fl.
gateless: Having no gate.
geat: The channel or spout through which molten metal runs into amold in casting. [Written also git, gate.]
genera: See Genus.
geranium: A genus of plants having a beaklike tours or receptacle, aroundwhich the seed capsules are arranged, and membranous projections, orstipules, at the joints. Most of the species have showy flowers and apungent odor. Called sometimes crane's-bill.
giffgaff: Mutial accommodation; mutual giving. [Scot.]
glimmer: To give feeble or scattered rays of light; to shine faintly; toshow a faint, unsteady light; as, the glimmering dawn; a glimmeringlamp.The west yet glimmers with some streaks of day. Shak.
glucosuria: A condition in which glucose is discharged in the urine;diabetes mellitus.
glutinous: Havig a moist and adhesive or sticky surface, as a leaf orgland.
gluttonish: Gluttonous; greedy. Sir P. Sidney.
gnosticism: The system of philosophy taught by the Gnostics.
gonfalonier: He who bears the gonfalon; a standard bearer; as:(a) An officer at Rome who bears the standard of the Church.(b) The chief magistrate of any one of several republics in mediævealItaly.(c) A Turkish general, and standard keeper.
gorgonize: To have the effect of a Gorgon upon; to turn into stone; topetrify. [R.]
gradient: Any member like a step, as the raised back of an altar or thelike; a set raised over another. "The gradines of the amphitheeater."Layard.
grandinous: Consisting of hail; abounding in hail. [R.] Bailey.
grassation: A wandering about with evil intentions; a rioting. [Obs. & R.]Feltham.
greit: See Greet, to weep.
grower: One who grows or produces; as, a grower of corn; also, thatwhich grows or increases; as, a vine may be a rank or a slow grower.
groyne: See Groin.
guard: To watch by way of caution or defense; to be caution; to be ina state or position of defense or safety; as, careful persons guardagainst mistakes.
guttated: Besprinkled with drops, or droplike spots. Bailey.
gynephobia: Hatred of women; repugnance to the society of women. Holmes.
habitance: Dwelling; abode; residence. [Obs.] Spenser.
habitue: One who habitually frequents a place; as, an habitué of atheater.
haemal: Pertaining to the blood or blood vessels; also, ventral. SeeHemal.
hagiographer: One of the writers of the hagiographa; a writer of lives of thesaints. Shipley.
haketon: Same as Acton. [Obs.]
hariolation: Prognostication; soothsaying. [Obs.] Cockeram.
harken: To hearken. Tennyson.
hartbeest: A large South African antelope (Alcelaphus caama), formerlymuch more abundant than it is now. The face and legs are marked withblack, the rump with white. [Written also hartebeest, and hartebest.]
haughtily: In a haughty manner; arrogantly.
heedless: Without heed or care; inattentive; careless; thoughtless;unobservant.O, negligent and heedless discipline! Shak.The heedless lover does not know Whose eyes they are that wound himso. Waller.-- Heed"less*ly, adv.-- Heed"less*ness, n.
heptarch: Same as Heptarchist.
heptene: Same as Heptylene.
herpetic: Pertaining to, or resembling, the herpes; partaking of thenature of herpes; as, herpetic eruptions.
heterocarpous: Characterized by heterocarpism.
heterogangliate: Having the ganglia of the nervous system unsymmetricallyarranged; -- said of certain invertebrate animals.
heterotaxy: Variation in arrangement from that existing in a normal form;heterogenous arrangement or structure, as, in botany, the deviationin position of the organs of a plant, from the ordinary or typicalarrangement.
holarctic: Of or pert. to the arctic regions collectively; specif.(Zoögeography),
holibut: See Halibut.
holosiderite: Meteoric iron; a meteorite consisting of metallic iron withoutstony matter.
homodynamy: The homology of metameres. See Metamere. Gegenbaur.
homologoumena: Those books of the New Testament which were acknowledged ascanonical by the early church; -- distinguished from antilegomena.
hornblower: One who, or that which, blows a horn.
horsefoot: The coltsfoot.
hydrargochloride: A compound of the bichloride of mercury with another chloride.[Obs.]
hygrophthalmic: Serving to moisten the eye; -- sometimes applied to thelachrymal ducts.
hylobate: Any species of the genus Hylobates; a gibbon, or long-armedape. See Gibbon.
hympne: A hymn. [Obs.] Chaucer.
hyperapophysis: A lateral and backward-projecting process on the dorsal side ofa vertebra.-- Hy`per*ap`o*phys"i*al, a.
iconology: The discussion or description of portraiture or ofrepresentative images. Cf. Iconography.
ictus: The stress of voice laid upon accented syllable of a word. Cf.Arsis.
illustriously: In a illustrious manner; conspicuously; eminently; famously.Milton.
imbow: To make like a bow; to curve; to arch; to vault; to embow."Imbowed windows." Bacon.
immerited: Unmerited. [Obs.] Charles I.
impalm: To grasp with or hold in the hand. [R.] J. Barlow.
impasting: The laying on of colors to produce impasto.
imperfectness: The state of being imperfect.
impetigo: A cutaneous, pustular eruption, not attended with fever;usually, a kind of eczema with pustulation.
impropitious: Unpropitious; unfavorable. [Obs.] "Dreams were impropitious."Sir H. Wotton.
improvisatrice: See Improvvisatrice.
incharity: Want of charity. [Obs.] Evelyn.
incisure: A cut; an incision; a gash. Derham.
inclinnometer: An apparatus to determine the inclination of the earth'smagnetic force to the plane of the horizon; -- called alsoinclination compass, and dip circle.
incloud: To envelop as in clouds; to darken; to obscure. Milton.
incomprehension: Want of comprehension or understanding. "These mazes andincomprehensions." Bacon.
increaser: One who, or that, increases.
indocibility: The state of being indocible; indocibleness; indocility.
ineffectively: In an ineffective manner; without effect; inefficiently;ineffectually.
inexist: To exist within; to dwell within. [Obs.]Substances inexisting within the divine mind. A. Tucker.
infelt: Felt inwardly; heartfelt. [R.]The baron stood afar off, or knelt in submissive, acknowledged,infelt inferiority. Milman.
infirmness: Infirmity; feebleness. Boyle.
informative: Having power to inform, animate, or vivify. Dr. H. More.
inharmony: Want of harmony.
inheritable: Capable of taking by inheritance, or of receiving by descent;capable of succeeding to, as an heir.By attainder . . . the blood of the person attainted is so corruptedas to be rendered no longer inheritable. Blackstone.The eldest daughter of the king is also alone inheritable to thecrown on failure of issue male. Blackstone.Inheritable blood, blood or relationship by which a person becomesqualified to be an heir, or to transmit possessions by inheritance.
inimitability: The quality or state of being inimitable; inimitableness.Norris.
injucundity: Unpleassantness; disagreeableness. [Obs.] Cockeram.
injurer: One who injures or wrongs.
inobedience: Disobedience. [Obs.] Wyclif. Chaucer.
inorganization: The state of being without organization.
insolence: To insult. [Obs.] Eikon Basilike.
instinctively: In an instinctive manner; by force of instinct; by naturalimpulse.
intensation: The act or process of intensifying; intensification; climax.[R.] Carlyle.
intercommunion: Mutual communion; as, an intercommunion of deities. Faber.
intrepid: Not trembling or shaking with fear; fearless; bold; brave;undaunted; courageous; as, an intrepid soldier; intrepid spirit.
intussuscepted: Received into some other thing or part, as a sword into asheath; invaginated.
invectively: In an invective manner. Shak.
inveigher: One who inveighs.
irreconcilability: The quality or state of being irreconcilable;irreconcilableness.
irregular: Not regular; not conforming to a law, method, or usagerecognized as the general rule; not according to common form; notconformable to nature, to the rules of moral rectitude, or toestablished principles; not normal; unnatural; immethodical;unsymmetrical; erratic; no straight; not uniform; as, an irregularline; an irregular figure; an irregular verse; an irregularphysician; an irregular proceeding; irregular motion; irregularconduct, etc. Cf. Regular.Mazes intricate, Eccentric, intervolved, yet regular Then most whenmost irregular they seem. Milton.Leading the men of Herefordshire to fight Against the irregular andwild Glendower. Shak.A flowery meadow through which a clear stream murmured in manyirregular meanders. Jones.
irremittable: Not capable of being remitted; irremissible. Holinshed.
irreparability: The quality or state of being irreparable; irreparableness.Sterne.
irretraceable: Incapable of being retraced; not retraceable.
irretrievably: In an irretrievable manner.
isagon: A figure or polygon whose angles are equal.
islamism: The faith, doctrines, or religious system of the Mohammedans;Mohammedanism; Islam.
isomorphic: Isomorphous.
jimcrack: See Gimcrack.
jingler: One who, or that which, jingles.
juglandine: An alkaloid found in the leaves of the walnut (Juglans regia).
keepsake: Anything kept, or given to be kept, for the sake of the giver;a token of friendship.
kefir: An effervescent liquor like kumiss, made from fermented milk,used as a food and as a medicine in the northern Caucasus. --Ke*fir"ic (#), a.
keg: A small cask or barrel.
kept: of Keep. Kept mistress, a concubine; a woman supported by a manas his paramour.
knappish: Snappish; peevish. [Obs.] Grafton.
knebelite: A mineral of a gray, red, brown, or green color, and glisteningluster. It is a silicate of iron and manganese.
labial: Furnished with lips; as, a labial organ pipe.
labioplasty: A plastic operation for making a new lip, or for replacing alost tissue of a lip.
ladkin: A little lad. [R.] Dr. H. More.
lasslorn: Forsaken by a lass. Shak.
latered: Inclined to delay; dilatory. [Obs.] "When a man is toolatered." Chaucer.
latitat: A writ based upon the presumption that the person summoned washiding. Blackstone.
legature: Legateship. [Obs.]
liquorice: See Licorice.
lithosian: Any one of various species of moths belonging to the familyLithosidæ. Many of them are beautifully colored.
lithotriptor: An instrument for triturating the stone in the bladder; alithotrite.
logarithmetically: Logarithmically.
loopie: Deceitful; cunning; sly. [Scot.]
loord: A dull, stupid fellow; a drone. [Obs.] Spenser.
lope: of Leap. [Obs.]And, laughing, lope into a tree. Spenser.
loy: A long, narrow spade for stony lands.
lucidly: In a lucid manner.
luster: One who lusts.
macrodiagonal: The longer of two diagonals, as of a rhombic prism. SeeCrystallization.
macropinacoid: One of the two planes of an orthorhombic crystal which areparallel to the vertical and longer lateral (macrodiagonal) axes.
macroprism: A prism of an orthorhombic crystal between the macropinacoidand the unit prism; the corresponding pyramids are calledmacropyramids.
macropus: genus of marsupials including the common kangaroo.
madbrained: Disordered in mind; hot-headed. Shak.
madden: To make mad; to drive to madness; to craze; to excite violentlywith passion; to make very angry; to enrage.
magnanimity: The quality of being magnanimous; greatness of mind; elevationor dignity of soul; that quality or combination of qualities, incharacter, which enables one to encounter danger and trouble withtranquility and firmness, to disdain injustice, meanness and revenge,and to act and sacrifice for noble objects.
magnesium: A light silver-white metallic element, malleable and ductile,quite permanent in dry air but tarnishing in moist air. It burns,forming (the oxide) magnesia, with the production of a blinding light(the so-called magnesium light) which is used in signaling, inpyrotechny, or in photography where a strong actinic illuminant isrequired. Its compounds occur abundantly, as in dolomite, talc,meerschaum, etc. Symbol Mg. Atomic weight, 24.4. Specific gravity,1.75. Magnesium sulphate. (Chem.) Same as Epsom salts.
magnetotherapy: The treatment of disease by the application of magnets to thesurface of the body.
magot: The Barbary ape.
malaxator: One who, or that which, malaxates; esp., a machine forgrinding, kneading, or stirring into a pasty or doughy mass. [R.]
malleal: Pertaining to the malleus.
malobservation: Erroneous observation. J. S Mill.
manuary: Manual.-- n.
march: The third month of the year, containing thirty-one days.The stormy March is come at last, With wind, and cloud, and changingskies. Bryant.As mad as a March Hare, an old English Saying derived from the factthat March is the rutting time of hares, when they are excitable andviolent. Wright.
marsh: A tract of soft wet land, commonly covered partially or whollywith water; a fen; a swamp; a morass. [Written also marish.] Marshasphodel (Bot.), a plant (Nartheeium ossifragum) with linear equitantleaves, and a raceme of small white flowers; -- called also bogasphodel.-- Marsh cinquefoil (Bot.), a plant (Potentilla palustris) havingpurple flowers, and found growing in marshy places; marsh five-finger.-- Marsh elder. (Bot.) (a) The guelder-rose or cranberry tree(Viburnum Opulus). (b) In the United States, a composite shrubgrowing in salt marshes (Iva frutescens).-- Marsh five-finger. (Bot.) See Marsh cinquefoil (above).-- Marsh gas. (Chem.) See under Gas.-- Marsh grass (Bot.), a genus (Spartina) of coarse grasses growingin marshes; -- called also cord grass. The tall S. cynosuroides isnot good for hay unless cut very young. The low S. juncea is a commoncomponent of salt hay.-- Marsh harrier (Zoöl.), a European hawk or harrier (Circusæruginosus); -- called also marsh hawk, moor hawk, moor buzzard,puttock.-- Marsh hawk. (Zoöl.) (a) A hawk or harrier (Circus cyaneus),native of both America and Europe. The adults are bluish slate above,with a white rump. Called also hen harrier, and mouse hawk. (b) Themarsh harrier.-- Marsh hen (Zoöl.), a rail; esp., Rallus elegans of fresh-watermarshes, and R. longirostris of salt-water marshes.-- Marsh mallow (Bot.), a plant of the genus Althæa ( A.officinalis) common in marshes near the seashore, and whose root ismuch used in medicine as a demulcent.-- Marsh marigold. (Bot.) See in the Vocabulary.-- Marsh pennywort (Bot.), any plant of the umbelliferous genusHydrocotyle; low herbs with roundish leaves, growing in wet places; -- called also water pennywort.-- Marsh quail (Zoöl.), the meadow lark.-- Marsh rosemary (Bot.), a plant of the genus Statice (S.Limonium), common in salt marshes. Its root is powerfully astringent,and is sometimes used in medicine. Called also sea lavender.-- Marsh samphire (Bot.), a plant (Salicornia herbacea) found alongseacoasts. See Glasswort.-- Marsh St. John's-wort (Bot.), an American herb (Elodes Virginica)with small opposite leaves and flesh-colored flowers.-- Marsh tea. (Bot.). Same as Labrador tea.-- Marsh trefoil. (Bot.) Same as Buckbean.-- Marsh wren (Zoöl.), any species of small American wrens of thegenus Cistothorus, and allied genera. They chiefly inhabit saltmarshes.
mattamore: A subterranean repository for wheat.
mear: A boundary. See Mere. [Obs.]
medius: The third or middle finger; the third digit, or that whichcorresponds to it.
megalesian: Pertaining to, or in honor of, Cybele; as, the Megalesian gamesat Rome.
mell: To mix; to meddle. [Obs.] Chaucer.
melodrame: Melodrama.
menses: The catamenial or menstrual discharge, a periodic flow of bloodor bloody fluid from the uterus or female generative organs.
merce: To subject to fine or amercement; to mulct; to amerce. [Obs.]
mersion: Immersion [R.] Barrow.
mesopodium: The middle portion of the foot in the Gastropoda and Pteropoda.
metatarsus: That part of the skeleton of the hind or lower limb between thetarsus and phalanges; metatarse. It consists, in the human foot, offive bones. See Illustration in Appendix.
meteorology: The science which treats of the atmosphere and its phenomena,particularly of its variations of heat and moisture, of its winds,storms, etc.
methanometer: An instrument, resembling a eudiometer, to detect the presenceand amount of methane, as in coal mines.
metromaniac: One who has metromania.
mildly: In a mild manner.
minable: Such as can be mined; as, minable earth. Sir T. North.
miraculize: To cause to seem to be a miracle. [R.] Shaftesbury.
misdate: To date erroneously. Young.
misdoing: A wrong done; a fault or crime; an offense; as, it was mymisdoing.
misexplanation: An erroneous explanation.
misrehearse: To rehearse or quote incorrectly. Sir T. More.
molasse: A soft Tertiary sandstone; -- applied to a rock occurring inSwitzerland. See Chart of Geology.
molecularity: The state of consisting of molecules; the state or quality ofbeing molecular.
momental: Of or pertaining to moment or momentum.
moneth: A month. [Obs.] Chaucer.
monochlamydeous: Having a single floral envelope, that is, a calyx without acorolla, or, possibly, in rare cases, a corolla without a calyx.
monodynamic: Possessing but one capacity or power. "Monodynamic men." DeQuincey.
montigenous: Produced on a mountain.
moonset: The descent of the moon below the horizon; also, the time whenthe moon sets.
mortifiedness: The state of being mortified; humiliation; subjection of thepassions. [R.]
mothered: Thick, like mother; viscid.They oint their naked limbs with mothered oil. Dryden.
mountainet: A small mountain. [R.]
murkiness: The state of being murky.
myotomic: Of or pertaining to a myotome or myotomes.
mytilotoxine: A poisonous base (leucomaine) found in the common mussel. Iteither causes paralysis of the muscles, or gives rise to convulsions,including death by an accumulation of carbonic acid in the blood.
nasalize: To render nasal, as sound; to insert a nasal or sound in.
nematode: Same as Nematoid.
newspaper: A sheet of paper printed and distributed, at stated intervals,for conveying intelligence of passing events, advocating opinions,etc.; a public print that circulates news, advertisements,proceedings of legislative bodies, public announcements, etc.
nickelodeon: A place of entertainment, as for moving picture exhibition,charging a fee or admission price of five cents. [U. S.]
ninthly: In the ninth place.
nonregent: A master of arts whose regency has ceased. See Regent.
northwesterly: Toward the northwest, or from the northwest.
nugify: To render trifling or futile; to make silly. [R.] Coleridge.
nymphean: Of, pertaining to, or appropriate to, nymphs; inhabited bynymphs; as, a nymphean cave.
objectively: In the manner or state of an object; as, a determinate ideaobjectively in the mind.
obscenity: That quality in words or things which presents what isoffensive to chasity or purity of mind; obscene or impure lanquage oracts; moral impurity; lewdness; obsceneness; as, the obscenity of aspeech, or a picture.Mr.Cowley asserts plainly, that obscenity has no place in wit.Dryden.No pardon vile obscenity should find. Pope.
odometry: Measurement of distances by the odometer.
oh: An exclamation expressing various emotions, according to thetone and manner, especially surprise, pain, sorrow, anxiety, or awish. See the Note under O.
omer: A Hebrew measure, the tenth of an ephah. See Ephah. Ex. xvi.36.
omphalomesenteric: Of or pertaining to the umbilicus and mesentery;omphalomesaraic; as, the omphalomesenteric arteries and veins of afetus.
opal: A mineral consisting, like quartz, of silica, but inferior toquartz in hardness and specific gravity.
ordering: Disposition; distribution; management. South.
organological: Of or relating to organology.
orris: A plant of the genus Iris (I. Florentina); a kind of flower-de-luce. Its rootstock has an odor resembling that of violets. Orris pea(Med.), an issue pea made from orris root.-- Orris root, the fragrant rootstock of the orris.
orthodromy: The act or art of sailing on a great circle.
orthotropic: Having the longer axis vertical; -- said of erect stems. Encyc.Brit.
orvietan: A kind of antidote for poisons; a counter poison formerly invogue. [Obs.]
oscitate: To gape; to yawn.
osphradium: The olfactory organ of some Mollusca. It is connected with theorgan of respiration.
osteography: The description of bones; osteology.
otological: Of or pertaining tootology.
our: Of or pertaining to us; belonging to us; as, our country; ourrights; our troops; our endeavors. See I.The Lord is our defense. Ps. lxxxix. 18.
outquench: To quench entirely; to extinguish. "The candlelightoutquenched." Spenser.
outsettler: One who settles at a distance, or away, from others.
outweed: To weed out. [Obs.]
overhasty: Too hasty; precipitate; rash.-- O"ver*has"ti*ly, adv.-- O`ver*has"ti*ness, n.
overhele: To hele or cover over. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
overtax: To tax or to task too heavily.
owling: The offense of transporting wool or sheep out of Englandcontrary to the statute formerly existing. Blackstone.
oxamidine: One of a series of bases containing the amido and theisonitroso groups united to the same carbon atom.
oxidation: The act or process of oxidizing, or the state or result ofbeing oxidized.
pactolian: Pertaining to the Pactolus, a river in ancient Lydia famous forits golden sands.
painty: Unskillfully painted, so that the painter's method of work istoo obvious; also, having too much pigment applied to the surface.[Cant]
palaverer: One who palavers; a flatterer.
paleontologist: One versed in paleontology.
pampiniform: In the form of tendrils; -- applied especially to the spermaticand ovarian veins.
pannus: A very vascular superficial opacity of the cornea, usuallycaused by granulation of the eyelids. Foster.
papular: Consisting of papules; characterized by the presence ofpapules; as, a papular eruption.
parachordal: Situated on either side of the notochord; -- applied especiallyto the cartilaginous rudiments of the skull on each side of theanterior part of the notochord.-- n.
parishioner: One who belongs to, or is connected with, a parish.
parthenogenesis: The production of new individuals from virgin females by meansof ova which have the power of developing without the intervention ofthe male element; the production, without fertilization, of cellscapable of germination. It is one of the phenomena of alternategeneration. Cf. Heterogamy, and Metagenesis.
patly: Fitly; seasonably. Barrow.
payn: Bread. Having Piers Plowman.
peccant: An offender. [Obs.] Whitlock.
pedagogism: The system, occupation, character, or manner of pedagogues.Milton.Avocation of pedantry and pedagogism. De Foe.
pellage: A customs duty on skins of leather.
perdifoil: A deciduous plant; -- opposed to Ant
periergy: A bombastic or labored style. [R.]
perigastric: Surrounding the stomach; -- applied to the body cavity ofBryozoa and various other Invertebrata.
persiflage: Frivolous or bantering talk; a frivolous manner of treating anysubject, whether serious or otherwise; light raillery. Hannah More.
perversedly: Perversely. [Obs.]
petzite: A telluride of silver and gold, related to hessite.
phalaenid: Any moth of the family Phalænidæ, of which the cankerworms areexamples; a geometrid.
pharyngolaryngeal: Of or pertaining both to pharynx and the larynx.
pharyngotome: An instrument for incising or scarifying the tonsils, etc.
phlox: A genus of American herbs, having showy red, white, or purpleflowers. Phlox worm (Zoöl.), the larva of an American moth (Heliothisphloxiphaga). It is destructive to phloxes.-- Phlox subulata, the moss pink. See under Moss.
phosphonic: Pertaining to, or designating, certain derivatives ofphosphorous acid containing a hydrocarbon radical, and analogous tothe sulphonic acid.
phosphorus: A poisonous nonmetallic element of the nitrogen group, obtainedas a white, or yellowish, translucent waxy substance, having acharacteristic disagreeable smell. It is very active chemically, mustbe preserved under water, and unites with oxygen even at ordinarytemperatures, giving a faint glow, -- whence its name. It alwaysoccurs compined, usually in phosphates, as in the mineral apatite, inbones, etc. It is used in the composition on the tips of frictionmatches, and for many other purposes. The molecule contains fouratoms. Symbol P. Atomic weight 31.0.
physiologist: One who is versed in the science of physiology; a student ofthe properties and functions of animal and vegetable organs andtissues.
picine: Of or pertaining to the woodpeckers (Pici), or to thePiciformes.
pigmy: See Pygmy. Pigmy falcon. (Zoöl.) Same as Falconet, 2 (a).
pilfer: To steal in small quantities, or articles of small value; topractice petty theft.
pimp: One who provides gratification for the lust of others; aprocurer; a pander. Swift.
placation: The act of placating. [R.] Puttenham (1589).
platetrope: One of a pair of a paired organs.
plethysmograph: An instrument for determining and registering the variations inthe size or volume of a limb, as the arm or leg, and hence thevariations in the amount of blood in the limb.-- Pleth`ys*mo*graph"ic, a.
pleuroperitoneum: The pleural and peritoneal membranes, or the membrane liningthe body cavity and covering the surface of the inclosed viscera; theperitoneum; -- used especially in the case of those animals in whichthe body cavity is not divided.
pluvian: The crocodile bird.
polychroism: Same as Pleochroism.
poncelet: A unit of power, being the power obtained from an expenditureof one hundred kilogram-meters of energy per second. One ponceletequals g watts, when g is the value of the acceleration of gravity incentimeters.
poplitic: Popliteal.
porotic: A medicine supposed to promote the formation of callus.
portman: An inhabitant or burgess of a port, esp. of one of the CinquePorts.
positiveness: The quality or state of being positive; reality; actualness;certainty; confidence; peremptoriness; dogmatism. See Positive, a.Positiveness, pedantry, and ill manners. Swift.The positiveness of sins of commission lies both in the habitude ofthe will and in the executed act too; the positiveness of sins ofomission is in the habitude of the will only. Norris.
possessionary: Of or pertaining to possession; arising from possession.
postcornu: The posterior horn of each lateral ventricle of the brain. B.G. Wilder.
posthaste: Haste or speed in traveling, like that of a post or courier.Shak.
postillation: The act of postillating; exposition of Scripture in preaching.
postiller: See Postiler.
powdering: a. & n. from Powder, v. t. Powdering tub. (a) A tub or vesselin which meat is corned or salted. (b) A heated tub in which aninfected lecher was placed for cure. [Obs.] Shak.
praenasal: Same as Prenasal.
precollection: A collection previously made. [R.]
prefixion: The act of prefixing. [R.] Bailey.
prenostic: A prognostic; an omen. [Obs.] Gower.
presbyope: One who has presbyopia; a farsighted person.
pression: An endeavor to move.
pressman: One of a press gang, who aids in forcing men into the navalservice; also, one forced into the service.
primitial: Being of the first production; primitive; original. [Obs.]Ainsworth.
procellous: Stormy. [Obs.] Bailey.
prognathic: Prognathous.
promerops: Any one of several species of very brilliant birds belonging toPromerops, Epimarchus, and allied genera, closely related to theparadise birds, and mostly native of New Guinea. They have a longcurved beak and a long graduated tail.
propagative: Producing by propagation, or by a process of growth.
prosaism: That which is in the form of prose writing; a prosaic manner.Coleridge.
proteaceous: Of or pertaining to the Proteaceæ, an order of apetalousevergreen shrubs, mostly natives of the Cape of Good Hope or ofAustralia.
protopine: An alkaloid found in opium in small quantities, and extractedas a white crystalline substance.
prunus: A genus of trees with perigynous rosaceous flowers, and asingle two-ovuled carpel which usually becomes a drupe in ripening.
pseudovum: An egglike germ produced by the agamic females of some insectsand other animals, and by the larvæ of certain insects. It is capableof development without fertilization. See Illust. of Pædogenesis.
psilosopher: A superficial or narrow pretender to philosophy; a shamphilosopher.
pterobranchia: An order of marine Bryozoa, having a bilobed lophophore and anaxial cord. The genus Rhabdopleura is the type. Called alsoPodostomata. See Rhabdopleura.
ptilocerque: The pentail.
puddock: A small inclosure. [Written also purrock.] [Prov. Eng.]
pulmometer: A spirometer.
pulque: An intoxicating Mexican drink. See Agave.
punty: See Pontee.
puree: A dish made by boiling any article of food to a pulp andrubbing it through a sieve; as, a purée of fish, or of potatoes;especially, a soup the thickening of which is so treated.
purposive: Having or indicating purpose or design. "Purposive characters."Bastian.Purposive modification of structure in a bone. Owen.It is impossible that the frog should perform actions morepurposivethan these. Huxley.
pursiness: State of being pursy.
pythoness: The priestess who gave oracular answers at Delphi in Greece.
quakerism: The peculiar character, manners, tenets, etc., of the Quakers.
quebracho: A Chilian apocynaceous tree (Aspidosperma Quebracho); also, itsbark, which is used as a febrifuge, and for dyspnoea of the lung, orbronchial diseases; -- called also white quebracho, to distinguish itfrom the red quebracho, a Mexican anacardiaceous tree (LoxopterygiumLorentzii) whose bark is said to have similar properties. J. Smith(Dict. Econ. Plants).
queerish: Rather queer; somewhat singular.
quenchless: Incapable of being quenched; inextinguishable; as, quenchlessfire or fury. "Once kindled, quenchless evermore." Byron.
quinate: Growing in sets of five; -- said especially of leaves composedof five leaflets set at the end of a common petiole.
quipo: Same as Quipu.
rabdoidal: See Sagittal. [Written also rhabdoidal.]
racemule: A little raceme.
rachidian: Of or pertaining to the rachis; spinal; vertebral. Same asRhachidian.
ramentaceous: Covered with ramenta.
ramline: A line used to get a straight middle line, as on a spar, orfrom stem to stern in building a vessel.
rannel: A prostitute. [Obs.]
rap: A lay or skein containing 120 yards of yarn. Knight.
rear: Early; soon. [Prov. Eng.]Then why does Cuddy leave his cot so rear! Gay.
reassemble: To assemble again.
recidivist: One who is recidivous or is characterized by recidivism; anincorrigible criminal. -- Re*cid`i*vis"tic (#), a.
reclinate: Reclined, as a leaf; bent downward, so that the point, as of astem or leaf, is lower than the base.
reconciler: One who reconciles.
recrudesce: To be in a state of recrudescence; esp., to come into renewedfreshness, vigor, or activity; to revive.
rectress: A rectoress. B. Jonson.
redaction: The act of redacting; work produced by redacting; a digest.
reestablisher: One who establishes again.
reezed: Grown rank; rancid; rusty. [Obs.] "Reezed bacon." Marston.
referee: One to whom a thing is referred; a person to whom a matter indispute has been referred, in order that he may settle it.
regalian: Pertaining to regalia; pertaining to the royal insignia orprerogatives. Hallam.
regretful: Full of regret; indulging in regrets; repining.-- Re*gret"ful*ly, adv.
reimbody: To imbody again. Boyle.
reit: Sedge; seaweed. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.]
remodel: To model or fashion anew; to change the form of.The corporation had been remodeled. Macaulay.
renvoy: To send back. [Obs.] "Not dismissing or renvoying her." Bacon.
repace: To pace again; to walk over again in a contrary direction.
reshape: To shape again.
resignment: The act of resigning.
restagnant: Stagnant; motionless. [Obs.] Boyle.
retrim: To trim again.
retropulsive: Driving back; repelling.
revery: Same as Reverie.
revilement: The act of reviling; also, contemptuous language; reproach;abuse. Spenser.
rhabdom: One of numerous minute rodlike structures formed of two or morecells situated behind the retinulæ in the compound eyes of insects,etc. See Illust. under Ommatidium.
rhomboganoidei: Same as Ginglymodi.
rogation: The demand, by the consuls or tribunes, of a law to be passedby the people; a proposed law or decree.
roily: Turbid; as, roily water.
rooky: Misty; gloomy. [Obs.]Light thickens, and the crow Makes wing to the rooky wood. Shak.
roric: Of or pertaining to dew; resembling dew; dewy. Roric figures(Physics), figures which appear upon a polished surface, as glass,when objects which have been near to, or in contact with, the surfaceare removed and the surface breathed upon; -- called also Moser'simages.
sadr: A plant of the genus Ziziphus (Z. lotus); -- so called by theArabs of Barbary, who use its berries for food. See Lotus (b).
saltie: The European dab.
santer: See Saunter.
sapidness: Quality of being sapid; sapidity.When the Israelites fancied the sapidness and relish of thefleshpots, they longed to taste and to return. Jer. Taylor.
sarcobasis: A fruit consisting of many dry indehiscent cells, which containbut few seeds and cohere about a common style, as in the mallows.
sard: A variety of carnelian, of a rich reddish yellow or brownishred color. See the Note under Chalcedony.
sardius: A precious stone, probably a carnelian, one of which was set inAaron's breastplate. Ex. xxviii. 17.
sauf: Safe. [Obs.] haucer.
saxicavous: Boring, or hollowing out, rocks; -- said of certain molluskswhich live in holes which they burrow in rocks. See Illust. ofLithodomus.
saxophone: A wind instrument of brass, containing a reed, and partaking ofthe qualities both of a brass instrument and of a clarinet.
scarabaeus: Same as Scarab.
scholastically: In a scholastic manner.
scholia: See Scholium.
schoolroom: A room in which pupils are taught.
scincoidea: A tribe of lizards including the skinks. See Skink.
scragly: See Scraggy.
scribbler: One who scribles; a literary hack.The scribbler, pinched with hunger, writes to dine. Granville.
sculptural: Of or pertaining to sculpture. G. Eliot.
semiacid: Slightly acid; subacid.
semimute: Having the faculty of speech but imperfectly developed orpartially lost.
semivitrified: Half or imperfectly vitrified; partially converted into glass.
septfoil: A European herb, the tormentil. See Tormentil.
serpet: A basket. [Obs.] Ainsworth.
serpolet: Wild thyme.
servitude: A right whereby one thing is subject to another thing or personfor use or convenience, contrary to the common right.
seventhly: In the seventh place.
sewin: Same as Sewen.
shabbily: In a shabby manner.
sheen: Bright; glittering; radiant; fair; showy; sheeny. [R., exceptin poetry.]This holy maiden, that is so bright and sheen. Chaucer.Up rose each warrier bold and brave, Glistening in filed steel andarmor sheen. Fairfax.
shode: See Shoad, Shoading.
shovelbill: The shoveler.
simous: Having a very flat or snub nose, with the end turned up.
single: To take the irrregular gait called single-foot;- said of ahorse. See Single-foot.Many very fleet horses, when overdriven, adopt a disagreeable gait,which seems to be a cross between a pace and a trot, in which the twolegs of one side are raised almost but not quite, simultaneously.Such horses are said to single, or to be single-footed. W. S. Clark.
skee: A long strip of wood, curved upwards in front, used on the footfor sliding.
sleazy: Wanting firmness of texture or substance; thin; flimsy; as,sleazy silk or muslin. [Spelt also slazy.]
slimly: In a state of slimness; in a slim manner; slenderly.
smeir: A salt glaze on pottery, made by adding common salt to anearthenware glaze.
sniffle: To snuffle, as one does with a catarrh. [Prov. Eng.]
snipy: Like a snipe.
socratically: In the Socratic method.
solubleness: Quality or state of being soluble.
sombrous: Gloomy; somber. "Tall and sombrous pines." Longfellow.-- Som"brous*ly, adv.-- Som"brous*ness, n.
soot: A black substance formed by combustion, or disengaged from fuelin the process of combustion, which rises in fine particles, andadheres to the sides of the chimney or pipe conveying the smoke;strictly, the fine powder, consisting chiefly of carbon, which colorssmoke, and which is the result of imperfect combustion. See Smoke.
sourde: To have origin or source; to rise; to spring. [Obs.]Now might men ask whereof that pride sourdeth. Chaucer.
spermatical: Spermatic.
spermoplasma: The protoplasm of the sperm cell. Haeckel.
spitalhouse: A hospital. [Obs.]
splanchnopleure: The inner, or visceral, one of the two lamellæ into which thevertebrate blastoderm divides on either side of the notochord, andfrom which the walls of the enteric canal and the umbilical vesicleare developed. See Somatopleure.-- Splanch`no*pleu"ric, a.
springhalt: A kind of lameness in horse. See Stringhalt. Shak.
squiffy: Somewhat intoxicated; tipsy. [Slang]  Kipling.
staple: To sort according to its staple; as, to staple cotton.
starost: A nobleman who possessed a starosty. [Poland]
stephanotis: A genus of climbing asclepiadaceous shrubs, of Madagascar,Malaya, etc. They have fleshy or coriaceous opposite leaves, andlarge white waxy flowers in cymes.
sternothyroid: Of or pertaining to the sternum and the thyroid cartilage.
stoneroot: A North American plant (Collinsonia Canadensis) having a veryhard root; horse balm. See Horse balm, under Horse.
storify: To form or tell stories of; to narrate or describe in a story.[Obs.]
stratocracy: A military government; government by military chiefs and anarmy.
streamless: Destitute of streams, or of a stream, as a region of country,or a dry channel.
stromatic: Miscellaneous; composed of different kinds.
sturk: See Stirk. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.]
sturt: To vex; to annoy; to startle. [Obs. or Prov. Eng. & Scot.]
stylommatophora: A division of Pulmonata in which the eyes are situated at thetips of the tentacles. It includes the common land snails and slugs.See Illust. under Snail.
subagitation: Unlawful sexual intercourse. [Obs.]
subeditor: An assistant editor, as of a periodical or journal.
subglumaceous: Somewhat glumaceous.
subsphenoidal: Situated under, or on the ventral side of, the body of thesphenoid bone.
subtilism: The quality or state of being subtile; subtility; subtlety.The high orthodox subtilism of Duns Scotus. Milman.
suchospondylous: Having dorsal vertebræ with long and divided transverseprocesses; -- applied to certain reptiles.
sulphureous: Consisting of sulphur; having the qualities of sulphur, orbrimstone; impregnated with sulphur.Her snakes united, sulphureous waters drink. Pope.-- Sul*phu"re*ous*ly, adv.-- Sul*phu"re*ous*ness, n.
superdominant: The sixth tone of the scale; that next above the dominant; --called also submediant.
superintendency: The act of superintending; superintendence. Boyle.
superregal: More than regal; worthy of one greater than a king. Waterland.
supplicancy: Supplication. [R.]
surgeon: Any one of numerous species of chætodont fishes of the familyTeuthidæ, or Acanthuridæ, which have one or two sharp lancelikespines on each side of the base of the tail. Called also surgeonfish, doctor fish, lancet fish, and sea surgeon. Surgeon apothecary,one who unites the practice of surgery with that of the apothecary.Dunglison.-- Surgeon dentist, a dental surgeon; a dentist.-- Surgeon fish. See def. 2, above.-- Surgeon general. (a) In the United States army, the chief of themedical department. (b) In the British army, a surgeon ranking nextbelow the chief of the medical department.
suspecter: One who suspects.
sutured: Having a suture or sutures; knit or united together. Pennant.
swaddler: A term of contempt for an Irish Methodist. Shipley.
sweeping: Cleaning off surfaces, or cleaning away dust, dirt, or litter,as a broom does; moving with swiftness and force; carrying everythingbefore it; including in its scope many persons or things; as, asweeping flood; a sweeping majority; a sweeping accusation.-- Sweep"ing*ly, adv. -Sweep"ing*ness, n.
swingebuckler: A swashbuckler; a bully; a roiserer. [Obs.] Shak.
syncopist: One who syncopates. Addison.
tabularize: To tabulate.
tacky: Sticky; adhesive; raw; -- said of paint, varnish, etc., whennot well dried. [U. S.]
tactful: Full of tact; characterized by a discerning sense of what isright, proper, or judicious.
taker: One who takes or receives; one who catches or apprehended.
taurocholate: A salt of taurocholic acid; as, sodium taurocholate, whichoccurs in human bile.
tax: To assess, fix, or determine judicially, the amount of; as, totax the cost of an action in court.
teinoscope: An instrument formed by combining prisms so as to correct thechromatic aberration of the light while linear dimensions of objectsseen through the prisms are increased or diminished; -- called alsoprism telescope. Sir D. Brewster.
temptatious: Tempting. [Prov. Eng.]
tenor: An exact copy of a writing, set forth in the words and figuresof it. It differs from purport, which is only the substance orgeneral import of the instrument. Bouvier.
tensure: Tension. [Obs.] Bacon.
tenuis: One of the three surd mutes k, p, t; -- so called in relationto their respective middle letters, or medials, g, b, d, and theiraspirates, x, f, th. The term is also applied to the correspondingletters and articulate elements in other languages.
terpene: Any one of a series of isomeric hydrocarbons of pleasantaromatic odor, occurring especially in coniferous plants andrepresented by oil of turpentine, but including also certainhydrocarbons found in some essential oils.
testification: The act of testifying, or giving testimony or evidence; as, adirect testification of our homage to God. South.
tetradite: A person in some way remarkable with regard to the number four,as one born on the fourth day of the month, or one who reverencedfour persons in the Godhead. Smart.
thebaid: A Latin epic poem by Statius about Thebes in Boeotia.
theban: Of or pertaining to Thebes. Theban year (Anc. Chron.), theEgyptian year of 365 days and 6 hours. J. Bryant.
thermobarograph: An instrument for recording simultaneously the pressure andtemperature of a gas; a combined thermograph and barograph.
thiocarbonic: Same as Sulphocarbonic.
throb: To beat, or pulsate, with more than usual force or rapidity; tobeat in consequence of agitation; to palpitate; -- said of the heart,pulse, etc.My heart Throbs to know one thing. Shak.Here may his head lie on my throbbing breast. Shak.
thunderbolt: A belemnite, or thunderstone. Thunderbolt beetle (Zoöl.), along-horned beetle (Arhopalus fulminans) whose larva bores in thetrunk of oak and chestnut trees. It is brownish and bluish-black,with W-shaped whitish or silvery markings on the elytra.
tomjohn: A kind of open sedan used in Ceylon, carried by a single poleon men's shoulders.
toom: Empty. [Obs. or Prov.Eng. & Scot.] Wyclif.
toxicogenic: Producing toxic products; as, toxicogenic germs or bacteria.
traducent: Slanderous. [R.] Entick.
train: To lead or direct, and form to a wall or espalier; to form to aproper shape, by bending, lopping, or pruning; as, to train youngtrees.He trained the young branches to the right hand or to the left.Jeffrey.
transprint: To transfer to the wrong place in printing; to print out ofplace. [R.] Coleridge.
tremolando: Same as Tremando.
triform: Having a triple form or character. "This triform antagonism."I. Taylor.Goddess Triform, I own thy triple spell. Lowell.
trimethylene: A gaseous hydrocarbon, C3H6, isomeric with propylene andobtained from it indirectly. It is the base of a series of compoundsanalogous to the aromatic hydrocarbons.
triptote: A noun having three cases only.
trochanteric: Of or pertaining to one or both of the trochanters.
trowel: A tool used for smoothing a mold. Trowel bayonet. See Spadebayonet, under Spade.-- Fish trowel. See Fish slice, under Fish.
trunked: Having (such) a trunk.Thickset with strong and well-trunked trees. Howell.
trussing: The timbers, etc., which form a truss, taken collectively.Weale.
tumescence: The act of becoming tumid; the state of being swollen;intumescence.
tutorage: The office or occupation of a tutor; tutorship; guardianship.
twelfth: An interval comprising an octave and a fifth.
twinge: To have a sudden, sharp, local pain, like a twitch; to suffer akeen, darting, or shooting pain; as, the side twinges.
tympanum: One of the naked, inflatable air sacs on the neck of theprairie chicken and other species of grouse.
ulcerated: Affected with, or as with, an ulcer or ulcers; as, an ulceratedsore throat.
ulnar: Of or pertaining to the ulna, or the elbow; as, the ulnarnerve.
unbeing: Not existing. [Obs.] "Beings yet unbeing." Sir T. Browne.
unblindfold: To free from that which blindfolds. Spenser.
unchaste: Not chaste; not continent; lewd.-- Un*chaste"ly, adv.-- Un*chaste"ness, n.
unconvenient: Inconvenient. Bale.-- Un`con*ven"ient*ly, adv. Udall.
uncord: To release from cords; to loosen the cord or cords of; tounfasten or unbind; as, to uncord a package.
underpeer: To peer under. [R.]
underspore: To raise with a spar, or piece of wood, used as a lever. [Obs.]Give me a staff that I may underspore. Chaucer.
understandingly: In an understanding manner; intelligibly; with full knowledgeor comprehension; intelligently; as, to vote upon a questionunderstandingly; to act or judge understandingly.The gospel may be neglected, but in can not be understandinglydisbelieved. J. Hawes.
undervaluer: One who undervalues.
unexceptive: Not exceptive; not including, admitting, or being, anexception.
uniaxial: Having but one optic axis, or line of no double refraction.
uniformitarian: Of, pertaining to, or designating, the view or doctrine thatexisting causes, acting in the same manner and with essentially thesame intensity as at the present time, are sufficient to account forall geological changes.
unipersonal: Used in only one person, especially only in the third person,as some verbs; impersonal.
unloose: To make loose; to loosen; to set free. Shak.
unoil: To remove the oil from. Dryden.
unpatience: Impatience. [Obs.]
unperishably: Imperishably.
unpowerful: Not powerful; weak. Cowley.
unsignificant: Insignificant. [Obs.] Holland.
unworthy: Not worthy; wanting merit, value, or fitness; undeserving;worthless; unbecoming; -- often with of.-- Un*wor"thi*ly, adv.-- Un*wor"thi*ness, n.
upgaze: To gaze upward. Byron.
upspring: To spring up. Tennyson.
urgently: In an urgent manner.
utraquist: One who receives the eucharist in both kinds; esp., one of abody of Hussites who in the 15th century fought for the right to dothis. Called also Calixtines.
vacuist: One who holds the doctrine that the space between the bodies ofthe universe, or the molecules and atoms of matter., is a vacuum; --opposed to plenist.
vampire: Either one of two or more species of South American blood-sucking bats belonging to the genera Desmodus and Diphylla. Thesebats are destitute of molar teeth, but have strong, sharp cuttingincisors with which they make punctured wounds from which they suckthe blood of horses, cattle, and other animals, as well as man,chiefly during sleep. They have a cæcal appendage to the stomach, inwhich the blood with which they gorge themselves is stored.
vanillyl: The hypothetical radical characteristic of vanillic alcohol.
variegation: The act of variegating or diversifying, or the state of beingdiversified, by different colors; diversity of colors.
verbalist: A literal adherent to, or a minute critic of, words; aliteralist.
vibration: A limited reciprocating motion of a particle of an elastic bodyor medium in alternately opposite directions from its position ofequilibrium, when that equilibrium has been disturbed, as when astretched cord or other body produces musical notes, or particles ofair transmit sounds to the ear. The path of the particle may be in astraight line, in a circular arc, or in any curve whatever.
vibrissa: One of the specialized or tactile hairs which grow about thenostrils, or on other parts of the face, in many animals, as the so-called whiskers of the cat, and the hairs of the nostrils of man.
villous: Furnished or clothed with villi.
viminal: Of or pertaining to twigs; consisting of twigs; producingtwigs.
vinaigrette: A sauce, made of vinegar, oil, and other ingredients, -- usedesp. for cold meats.
viticulose: Having long and slender trailing stems.
vitrescible: That may be vitrified; vitrifiable.
void: Of no legal force or effect, incapable of confirmation orratification; null. Cf. Voidable, 2. Void space (Physics), a vacuum.
voluptuary: A voluptuous person; one who makes his physical enjoyment hischief care; one addicted to luxury, and the gratification of sensualappetites.A good-humored, but hard-hearted, voluptuary. Sir W. Scott.
wagonry: Conveyance by means of a wagon or wagons. [Obs.] Milton.
waiwode: See Waywode.
wapentake: In some northern counties of England, a division, or district,answering to the hundred in other counties. Yorkshire, Lincolnshire,and Nottinghamshire are divided into wapentakes, instead of hundreds.[Written also wapentac.] Selden. Blackstone.
westernmost: Situated the farthest towards the west; most western.
wey: Way; road; path. [Obs.] Chaucer.
wheft: See Waft, n., 4.
whim: The European widgeon. [Prov. Eng.]
whipgraft: To graft by cutting the scion and stock in a certain manner.See Whip grafting, under Grafting.
whirlicote: An open car or chariot. [Obs.]Of old time coaches were not known in this island, but chariots, orwhirlicotes. Stow.
whitsunday: The seventh Sunday, and the fiftieth day, after Easter; afestival of the church in commemoration of the descent of the HolySpirit on the day of Pentecost; Pentecost; -- so called, it is said,because, in the primitive church, those who had been newly baptizedappeared at church between Easter and Pentecost in white garments.
wifely: Becoming or life; of or pertaining to a wife. "Wifelypatience." Chaucer.With all the tenderness of wifely love. Dryden.
wishable: Capable or worthy of being wished for; desirable. Udall.
wittified: Possessed of wit; witty. [R.] R. North.
wonders: See Wondrous. [Obs.]They be wonders glad thereof. Sir T. More.
workbag: A bag for holding implements or materials for work; especially,a reticule, or bag for holding needlework, and the like.
wys: Wise. [Obs.] Chaucer.
yaksha: A kind of demigod attendant on Kuvera, the god of wealth.
yardstick: A stick three feet, or a yard, in length, used as a measure ofcloth, etc.
yede: Went. See Yode.All as he bade fulfilled was indeed This ilke servant anon right outyede. Chaucer.
zion: A hill in Jerusalem, which, after the capture of that city bythe Israelites, became the royal residence of David and hissuccessors.