anniverse: Anniversary. [Obs.] Dryden.
annotation: A note, added by way of comment, or explanation; -- usually inthe plural; as, annotations on ancient authors, or on a word or apassage.
apocalyptically: By revelation; in an apocalyptic manner.
assumable: That may be assumed.
atony: Want of tone; weakness of the system, or of any organ,especially of such as are contractile.
baculine: Of or pertaining to the rod or punishment with the rod.
bavarian: Of or pertaining to Bavaria.-- n.
blent: Mingled; mixed; blended; also, polluted; stained.Rider and horse, friend, foe, in one red burial blent. Byron.
calorifiant: See Calorificient.
canakin: A little can or cup. "And let me the canakin clink." Shak.
castellany: The lordship of a castle; the extent of land and jurisdictionappertaining to a castle.
caustically: In a caustic manner.
chlorophane: A variety of fluor spar, which, when heated, gives a beautifulemerald green light.
chump: A short, thick, heavy piece of wood. Morton. Chump end, thethick end; as, the chump end of a joint of meat. Dickens.
cicuta: a genus of poisonous umbelliferous plants, of which the waterhemlock or cowbane is best known.
clothespin: A forked piece of wood, or a small spring clamp, used forfastening clothes on a line.
colbertine: A kind of lace. [Obs.]Pinners edged with colbertine. Swift.Difference rose between Mechlin, the queen of lace, and colbertine.Young.
collie: The Scotch shepherd dog. There are two breeds, the rough-hairedand smooth-haired. It is remarkable for its intelligence, displayedespecially in caring for flocks. [Written also colly, colley.]
coronule: A coronet or little crown of a seed; the downy tuft on seeds.See Pappus. Martyn.
curioso: A virtuoso.
cyanosis: A condition in which, from insufficient aCyanopathy.
darbies: Manacles; handcuffs. [Cant]Jem Clink will fetch you the darbies. Sir W. Scott.
delightful: Highly pleasing; affording great pleasure and satisfaction."Delightful bowers." Spenser. "Delightful fruit." Milton.
deplorably: In a deplorable manner.
dibranchiate: Having two gills.-- n.
dilaceration: The act of rending asunder. Arbuthnot.
dilogical: Ambiguous; of double meaning. [Obs.] T. Adams.
dipteral: Having two wings only; belonging to the order Diptera.
disaccord: To refuse to assent. [Obs.] Spenser.
dishful: As much as a dish holds when full.
dysaesthesia: Impairment of any of the senses, esp. of touch.
effector: An effecter. Derham.
egregiously: Greatly; enormously; shamefully; as, egregiously cheated.
enorm: Enormous. [Obs.] Spenser.
eupittone: A yellow, crystalline substance, resembling aurin, and obtainedby the oxidation of pittacal; -- called also eupittonic acid.[Written also eupitton.]
flannel: A soft, nappy, woolen cloth, of loose texture. Shak. Adam'sflannel. (Bot.) See under Adam.-- Canton flannel, Cotton flannel. See Cotton flannel, under Cotton.
flatfish: Any fish of the family Pleuronectidæ; esp., the winter flounder(Pleuronectes Americanus). The flatfishes have the body flattened,swim on the side, and have eyes on one side, as the flounder, turbot,and halibut. See Flounder.
geologist: One versed in the science of geology.
hatred: Strong aversion; intense dislike; hate; an affection of themind awakened by something regarded as evil.
healable: Capable of being healed.
helotism: The condition of the Helots or slaves in Sparta; slavery.
horsetail: A leafless plant, with hollow and rushlike stems. It is of thegenus Equisetum, and is allied to the ferns. See Illust. ofEquisetum.
inadvertent: Not turning the mind to a matter; heedless; careless;negligent; inattentive.An inadvertent step may crush the snail That crawls at evening in thepublic path. Cowper.-- In`ad*vert"ent*ly, adv.
inapplicability: The quality of being inapplicable; unfitness; inapplicableness.
independent: Belonging or pertaining to, or holding to the doctrines ormethods of, the Independents.
jaw: The inner end of a boom or gaff, hollowed in a half circle soas to move freely on a mast.
lama: See Llama.
monosyllabled: Formed into, or consisting of, monosyllables. Cleveland.
neatify: To make neat. [Obs.] olland.
obduration: A hardening of the heart; hardness of heart. [Obs.]
ordinant: Ordaining; decreeing. [Obs.] Shak.
orgillous: Proud; haughty. [Obs.] Shak.
ost: See Oast.
ounding: Waving. [Obs.]Ounding, paling, winding, or bending . . . of cloth. Chaucer.
overconfidence: Excessive confidence; too great reliance or trust.
parliamental: Parliamentary. [Obs.]
persimmon: An American tree (Diospyros Virginiana) and its fruit, foundfrom New York southward. The fruit is like a plum in appearance, butis very harsh and astringent until it has been exposed to frost, whenit becomes palatable and nutritious. Japanese persimmon, DiospyrosKaki and its red or yellow edible fruit, which outwardly resembles atomato, but contains a few large seeds.
phantascope: An optical instrument or toy, resembling the phenakistoscope,and illustrating the same principle; -- called also phantasmascope.
philosophism: Spurious philosophy; the love or practice of sophistry.Carlyle.
praisement: Appraisement. [Obs.]
precursor: One who, or that which, precedes an event, and indicates itsapproach; a forerunner; a harbinger.Evil thoughts are the invisible, airy precursors of all the stormsand tempests of the soul. Buckminster.
pueblo: A communistic building erected by certain Indian tribes ofArizona and New Mexico. It is often of large size and several storieshigh, and is usually built either of stone or adobe. The term is alsoapplied to any Indian village in the same region. Pueblo Indians(Ethnol.), any tribe or community of Indians living in pueblos. Theprincipal Pueblo tribes are the Moqui, the Zuñi, the Keran, and theTewan.
ratiocinative: Characterized by, or addicted to, ratiocination; consisting inthe comparison of proportions or facts, and the deduction ofinferences from the comparison; argumentative; as, a ratiocinativeprocess.The ratiocinative meditativeness of his character. Coleridge.
redact: To reduce to form, as literary matter; to digest and put inshape (matter for publication); to edit.
repressible: Capable of being repressed.
seamark: Any elevated object on land which serves as a guide tomariners; a beacon; a landmark visible from the sea, as a hill, atree, a steeple, or the like. Shak.
solano: A hot, oppressive wind which sometimes blows in theMediterranean, particularly on the eastern coast of Spain.
sphenoidal: Pertaining to, or resembling, a sphenoid.
statuesquely: In a statuesque manner; in a way suggestive of a statue; like astatue.A character statuesquely simple in its details. Lowell.
stearyl: The hypothetical radical characteristic of stearic acid.
swelltoad: A swellfish.
towser: A familiar name for a dog. [ Written also Towzer. ]
unprovident: Improvident. [Obs.] "Who for thyself art so unprovident.' Shak.
unsoft: Not soft; hard; coarse; rough. [Obs.] "Bristles of his beardunsoft." Chaucer.
vincible: Capable of being overcome or subdued; conquerable. "He, notvincible in spirit . . . drew his sword." Hayward. "Vincible by humanaid." Paley. Vincible ignorance (Theol.), ignorance within theindividual's control and for which, therefore, he is responsiblebefore God.
vouchsafement: The act of vouchsafing, or that which is vouchsafed; a gift orgrant in condescension. Glanvill.
welladay: Alas! Welaway! Shak.
westing: The distance, reckoned toward the west, between the twomeridians passing through the extremities of a course, or portion ofa ship's path; the departure of a course which lies to the west ofnorth.
wildering: A plant growing in a state of nature; especially, one which hasrun wild, or escaped from cultivation.
zohar: A Jewish cabalistic book attributed by tradition to Rabbi Simonben Yochi, who lived about the end of the 1st century, a. d. Moderncritics believe it to be a compilation of the 13th century. Encyc.Brit.