abaisance: Obeisance. [Obs.] Jonson.
abanga: A West Indian palm; also the fruit of this palm, the seeds ofwhich are used as a remedy for diseases of the chest.
abatable: Capable of being abated; as, an abatable writ or nuisance.
abattoir: A public slaughterhouse for cattle, sheep, etc.
abatvoix: The sounding-board over a pulpit or rostrum.
abawed: Astonished; abashed. [Obs.] Chaucer.
abba: Father; religious superior; -- in the Syriac, Coptic, andEthiopic churches, a title given to the bishops, and by the bishopsto the patriarch.
abdicable: Capable of being abdicated.
aberr: To wander; to stray. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
abhominal: Inhuman. [Obs.] Fuller.
abiogeny: Same as Abiogenesis.
abirritate: To diminish the sensibility of; to debilitate.
abit: 3d sing. pres. of Abide. [Obs.] Chaucer.
abjunctive: Exceptional. [R.]It is this power which leads on from the accidental and abjunctive tothe universal. I. Taylor.
ableness: Ability of body or mind; force; vigor. [Obs. or R.]
abloom: In or into bloom; in a blooming state. Masson.
aborsive: Abortive. [Obs.] Fuller.
abrenounce: To renounce. [Obs.] "They abrenounce and cast them off."Latimer.
abruption: A sudden breaking off; a violent separation of bodies.Woodward.
absentation: The act of absenting one's self. Sir W. Hamilton.
absenteeism: The state or practice of an absentee; esp. the practice ofabsenting one's self from the country or district where one's estateis situated.
absinthian: Of the nature of wormwood. "Absinthian bitterness." T.Randolph.
absinthiate: To impregnate with wormwood.
absinthism: The condition of being poisoned by the excessive use ofabsinth.
absoluteness: The quality of being absolute; independence of everythingextraneous; unlimitedness; absolute power; independent reality;positiveness.
absolutism: Doctrine of absolute decrees. Ash.
absorption: An imbibing or reception by molecular or chemical action; as,the absorption of light, heat, electricity, etc.
absorptive: Having power, capacity, or tendency to absorb or imbibe. E.Darwin.
abstentious: Characterized by abstinence; self-restraining. Farrar.
abstersive: Cleansing; purging. Bacon.
abstinently: With abstinence.
abstractiveness: The quality of being abstractive; abstractive property.
absume: To consume gradually; to waste away. [Obs.] Boyle.
absumption: Act of wasting away; a consuming; extinction. [Obs.] Sir T.Browne.
abusion: Evil or corrupt usage; abuse; wrong; reproach; deception;cheat. Chaucer.
abuttal: The butting or boundary of land, particularly at the end; aheadland. Spelman.
abysmal: Pertaining to, or resembling, an abyss; bottomless; unending;profound.Geology gives one the same abysmal extent of time that astronomy doesof space. Carlyle.
abysmally: To a fathomless depth; profoundly. "Abysmally ignorant." G.Eliot.
abyssal: Belonging to, or resembling, an abyss; unfathomable. Abyssalzone (Phys. Geog.), one of the belts or zones into which Sir E.Forbes divides the bottom of the sea in describing its plants,animals, etc. It is the one furthest from the shore, embracing allbeyond one hundred fathoms deep. Hence, abyssal animals, plants, etc.
acanthopodious: Having spinous petioles.
acaulescent: Having no stem or caulis, or only a very short one concealed inthe ground. Gray.
accedence: The act of acceding.
accentless: Without accent.
accentual: Of or pertaining to accent; characterized or formed by accent.
acceptant: Accepting; receiving.
acceptilation: Gratuitous discharge; a release from debt or obligation withoutpayment; free remission.
accession: The invasion, approach, or commencement of a disease; a fit orparoxysm.
accessorily: In the manner of an accessory; auxiliary.
acclaimer: One who acclaims.
acclive: Acclivous. [Obs.]
accommodableness: The quality or condition of being accommodable. [R.] Todd.
accommodating: Affording, or disposed to afford, accommodation; obliging; asan accommodating man, spirit, arrangement.
accompanier: He who, or that which, accompanies. Lamb.
accomptable: See Accountable.
accost: To adjoin; to lie alongside. [Obs.] "The shores which to thesea accost." Spenser.
accrescence: Continuous growth; an accretion. [R.]The silent accrescence of belief from the unwatched depositions of ageneral, never contradicted hearsy. Coleridge.
accrual: Accrument. [R.]
accumbency: The state of being accumbent or reclining. [R.]
accumbent: Lying against anything, as one part of a leaf against anotherleaf. Gray.Accumbent cotyledons have their edges placed against the caulicle.Eaton.
accurse: To devote to destruction; to imprecate misery or evil upon; tocurse; to execrate; to anathematize.And the city shall be accursed. Josh. vi. 17.Thro' you, my life will be accurst. Tennyson.
accusable: Liable to be accused or censured; chargeable with a crime orfault; blamable; -- with of.
accusal: Accusation. [R.] Byron.
accusant: An accuser. Bp. Hall.
accusative: Applied to the case (as the fourth case of Latin and Greeknouns) which expresses the immediate object on which the action orinfluence of a transitive verb terminates, or the immediate object ofmotion or tendency to, expressed by a preposition. It corresponds tothe objective case in English.
accustomable: Habitual; customary; wonted. "Accustomable goodness." Latimer.
accustomary: Usual; customary. [Archaic] Featley.
acephalan: Same as Acephal.
acephalocyst: A larval entozoön in the form of a subglobular or oval vesicle,or hy datid, filled with fluid, sometimes found in the tissues of manand the lower animals; -- so called from the absence of a head orvisible organs on the vesicle. These cysts are the immature stages ofcertain tapeworms. Also applied to similar cysts of different origin.
acerate: A combination of aceric acid with a salifiable base.
acerb: Sour, bitter, and harsh to the taste, as unripe fruit; sharpand harsh.
acetaldehyde: Acetic aldehyde. See Aldehyde.
acetification: The act of making acetous or sour; the process of converting,or of becoming converted, into vinegar.
acetimetry: The act or method of ascertaining the strength of vinegar, orthe proportion of acetic acid contained in it. Ure.
acetonuria: Excess of acetone in the urine, as in starvation or diabetes.
achievable: Capable of being achieved. Barrow.
acholia: Deficiency or want of bile.
achromatize: To deprive of color; to make achromatic.
achromatopsy: Color blindness; inability to distinguish colors; Daltonism.
aciculiform: Needle-shaped; acicular.
aciculite: Needle ore. Brande & C.
acidic: Containing a high percentage of silica; -- opposed to basic. anacidic solution.
acold: Cold. [Obs.] "Poor Tom's acold." Shak.
acoustic: Pertaining to the sense of hearing, the organs of hearing, orthe science of sounds; auditory. Acoustic duct, the auditory duct, orexternal passage of the ear.-- Acoustic telegraph, a telegraph making audible signals; atelephone.-- Acoustic vessels, brazen tubes or vessels, shaped like a bell,used in ancient theaters to propel the voices of the actors, so as torender them audible to a great distance.
acquiet: To quiet. [Obs.]Acquiet his mind from stirring you against your own peace. Sir A.Sherley.
acquire: To gain, usually by one's own exertions; to get as one's own;as, to acquire a title, riches, knowledge, skill, good or bad habits.No virtue is acquired in an instant, but step by step. Barrow.Descent is the title whereby a man, on the death of his ancestor,acquires his estate, by right of representation, as his heir at law.Blackstone.
acreable: Of an acre; per acre; as, the acreable produce.
acrimoniousness: The quality of being acrimonious; asperity; acrimony.
acrogen: A plant of the highest class of cryptograms, including theferns, etc. See Cryptogamia. The Age of Acrogens (Geol.), the age ofcoal plants, or the carboniferous era.
acrolith: A statue whose extremities are of stone, the trunk beinggenerally of wood. Elmes.
acrook: Crookedly. [R.] Udall.
acrostically: After the manner of an acrostic.
acrotarsium: The instep or front of the tarsus.
actable: Capable of being acted. Tennyson.
actinal: Pertaining to the part of a radiate animal which contains themouth. L. Agassiz.
actinaria: A large division of Anthozoa, including those which have simpletentacles and do not form stony corals. Sometimes, in a wider sense,applied to all the Anthozoa, expert the Alcyonaria, whether formingcorals or not.
actiniform: Having a radiated form, like a sea anemone.
actinozoal: Of or pertaining to the Actinozoa.
acuition: The act of sharpening. [Obs.]
aculeate: Having a sting; covered with prickles; sharp like a prickle.
acustumaunce: See Accustomance. [Obs.]
acyclic: Not cyclic; not disposed in cycles or whorls; as
adaptedness: The state or quality of being adapted; suitableness; specialfitness.
adduction: The action by which the parts of the body are drawn towards itsaxis]; -- opposed to abduction. Dunglison.
ademption: The revocation or taking away of a grant donation, legacy, orthe like. Bouvier.
adenological: Pertaining to adenology.
adhesively: In an adhesive manner.
adhortation: Advice; exhortation. [Obs.] Peacham.
adjectivally: As, or in the manner of, an adjective; adjectively.
adjoin: To join or unite to; to lie contiguous to; to be in contactwith; to attach; to append.Corrections . . . should be, as remarks, adjoined by way of note.Watts.
adjourn: To put off or defer to another day, or indefinitely; topostpone; to close or suspend for the day; -- commonly said of themeeting, or the action, of convened body; as, to adjourn the meeting;to adjourn a debate.It is a common practice to adjourn the reformation of their lives toa further time. Barrow.'Tis a needful fitness That we adjourn this court till further day.Shak.
adjournal: Adjournment; postponement. [R.] "An adjournal of the Diet." SirW. Scott.
adjudication: The decision upon the question whether the debtor is abankrupt. Abbott.
adjunctive: Joining; having the quality of joining; forming an adjunct.
adjunctly: By way of addition or adjunct; in connection with.
adjuratory: Containing an adjuration.
adjuvant: Helping; helpful; assisting. [R.] "Adjuvant causes." Howell.
admarginate: To write in the margin. [R.] Coleridge.
admeasurer: One who admeasures.
administrator: A man who manages or settles the estate of an intestate, or ofa testator when there is no competent executor; one to whom the rightof administration has been committed by competent authority.
administratorship: The position or office of an administrator.
admirableness: The quality of being admirable; wonderful excellence.
admiral: A handsome butterfly (Pyrameis Atalanta) of Europe and America.The larva feeds on nettles. Admiral shell (Zoöl.), the popular nameof an ornamental cone shell (Conus admiralis). Lord High Admiral, agreat officer of state, who (when this rare dignity is conferred) isat the head of the naval administration of Great Britain.
admittable: Admissible. Sir T. Browne.
admittatur: The certificate of admission given in some American colleges.
admonitory: That conveys admonition; warning or reproving; as, anadmonitory glance.-- Ad*mon"i*to*ri*ly,, adv.
adnate: Grown to congenitally.
adonai: A Hebrew name for God, usually translated in the Old Testamentby the word "Lord".
adread: To dread. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney.
adstrict: See Astrict, and Astriction.
adulteress: A woman who violates her religious engagements. James iv. 4.
adumbrative: Faintly representing; typical. Carlyle.
advantageable: Advantageous. [Obs.]
adventure: To try the chance; to take the risk.I would adventure for such merchandise. Shak.
adverbially: In the manner of an adverb.
adviser: One who advises.
advocation: The process of removing a cause from an inferior court to thesupreme court. Bell.
advoke: To summon; to call. [Obs.]Queen Katharine had privately prevailed with the pope to advoke thecause to Rome. Fuller.
advoyer: See Avoyer. [Obs.]
adynamia: Considerable debility of the vital powers, as in typhoid fever.Dunglison.
aeneous: Colored like bronze.
aeriferous: Conveying or containing air; air-bearing; as, the windpipe isan aëriferous tube.
aeronat: A dirigible balloon.
aerose: Of the nature of, or like, copper; brassy. [R.]
aesthesodic: Conveying sensory or afferent impulses; -- said of nerves.
aetites: See Eaglestone.
affamish: To afflict with, or perish from, hunger. [Obs.] Spenser.
affecter: One who affects, assumes, pretends, or strives after."Affecters of wit." Abp. Secker.
affectionately: With affection; lovingly; fondly; tenderly; kindly.
affectively: In an affective manner; impressively; emotionally.
affectuous: Full of passion or emotion; earnest. [Obs.] --Af*fec"tu*ous*ly, adv. [Obs.] Fabyan.
afferent: Bearing or conducting inwards to a part or organ; -- opposed toefferent; as, afferent vessels; afferent nerves, which conveysensations from the external organs to the brain.
affettuoso: With feeling.
affiant: One who makes an affidavit. [U. S.] Burrill.
affirmatory: Giving affirmation; assertive; affirmative. Massey.
afflictively: In an afflictive manner.
affluentness: Great plenty. [R.]
affray: The fighting of two or more persons, in a public place, to theterror of others. Blackstone.
affrayer: One engaged in an affray.
affret: A furious onset or attack. [Obs.] Spenser.
aflutter: In a flutter; agitated.
afront: In front; face to face.-- prep. In front of. Shak.
afterpains: The pains which succeed childbirth, as in expelling theafterbirth.
afterthought: Reflection after an act; later or subsequent thought orexpedient.
agalmatolite: A soft, compact stone, of a grayish, greenish, or yellowishcolor, carved into images by the Chinese, and hence called figurestone, and pagodite. It is probably a variety of pinite.
agglomerate: To wind or collect into a ball; hence, to gather into a mass oranything like a mass.Where he builds the agglomerated pile. Cowper.
aggrandize: To increase or become great. [Obs.]Follies, continued till old age, do aggrandize. J. Hall.
aggrievance: Oppression; hardship; injury; grievance. [Archaic]
agile: Having the faculty of quick motion in the limbs; apt or readyto move; nimble; active; as, an agile boy; an agile tongue.Shaking it with agile hand. Cowper.
agnation: Consanguinity by a line of males only, as distinguished fromcognation. Bouvier.
agora: An assembly; hence, the place of assembly, especially themarket place, in an ancient Greek city.
agraphic: Characterized by agraphia.
agrostology: That part of botany which treats of the grasses.
ahey: Hey; ho.
aid: To support, either by furnishing strength or means incoöperation to effect a purpose, or to prevent or to remove evil; tohelp; to assist.You speedy helpers . . . Appear and aid me in this enterprise. Shak.
ail: To affect with pain or uneasiness, either physical or mental;to trouble; to be the matter with; -- used to express some uneasinessor affection, whose cause is unknown; as, what ails the man I knownot what ails him.What aileth thee, Hagar Gen. xxi. 17.
airling: A thoughtless, gay person. [Obs.] "Slight airlings." B. Jonson.
airmanship: Art, skill, or ability in the practice of aërial navigation.
ait: An islet, or little isle, in a river or lake; an eyot.The ait where the osiers grew. R. Hodges (1649).Among green aits and meadows. Dickens.
ajar: Slightly turned or opened; as, the door was standing ajar.
ake: See Ache.
aknee: On the knee. [R.] Southey.
alarum: See Alarm. [Now Poetic]
albanian: Of or pertaining to Albania, a province of Turkey.-- n.
albication: The process of becoming white, or developing white patches, orstreaks.
albification: The act or process of making white. [Obs.]
albiness: A female albino. Holmes.
albinoism: The state or condition of being an albino; albinism.
albinotic: Affected with albinism.
albuminimeter: An instrument for ascertaining the quantity of albumen in aliquid.
albuminosis: A morbid condition due to excessive increase of albuminouselements in the blood.
alcedo: A genus of perching birds, including the European kingfisher(Alcedo ispida). See Halcyon.
alcoholate: A crystallizable compound of a salt with alcohol, in which thelatter plays a part analogous to that of water of crystallization.Graham.
alcoholometry: The process or method of ascertaining the proportion of purealcohol which spirituous liquors contain.
aldern: Made of alder.
alebench: A bench in or before an alehouse. Bunyan.
alecithal: Applied to those ova which segment uniformly, and which havelittle or no food yelk embedded in their protoplasm. Balfour.
alectryomancy: Divination by means of a cock and grains of corn placed on theletters of the alphabet, the letters being put together in the orderin which the grains were eaten. Amer. Cyc.
alepole: A pole set up as the sign of an alehouse. [Obs.]
aleuronat: Flour made of aleurone, used as a substitute for ordinary flourin preparing bread for diabetic persons.
aleuronic: Having the nature of aleurone. D. C. Eaton.
algonquian: Pertaining to or designating the most extensive of thelinguistic families of North American Indians, their territoryformerly including practically all of Canada east of the 115thmeridian and south of Hudson's Bay and the part of the United Stateseast of the Mississippi and north of Tennessee and Virginia, with theexception of the territory occupied by the northern Iroquoian tribes.There are nearly 100,000 Indians of the Algonquian tribes, of whichthe strongest are the Ojibwas (Chippewas), Ottawas, Crees,Algonquins, Micmacs, and Blackfeet. -- n.
alibi: The plea or mode of defense under which a person on trial for acrime proves or attempts to prove that he was in another place whenthe alleged act was committed; as, to set up an alibi; to prove analibi.
align: To adjust or form to a line; to range or form in line; to bringinto line; to aline.
alimentally: So as to serve for nourishment or food; nourishing quality. SirT. Browne.
alimentariness: The quality of being alimentary; nourishing quality. [R.]
alinement: Same as Alignment.
aliphatic: Of, pertaining to, or derived from, fat; fatty; -- applied tocompounds having an openc-hain structure. The aliphatic compoundsthus include not only the fatty acids and other derivatives of theparaffin hydrocarbons, but also unsaturated compounds, as theethylene and acetylene series.
alkaline: Of or pertaining to an alkali or to alkalies; having theproperties of an alkali. Alkaline earths, certain substances, aslime, baryta, strontia, and magnesia, possessing some of thequalities of alkalies.-- Alkaline metals, potassium, sodium, cæsium, lithium, rubidium.-- Alkaline reaction, a reaction indicating alkalinity, as by theaction on limits, turmeric, etc.
alkalize: To render alkaline; to communicate the properties of an alkalito.
allah: The name of the Supreme Being, in use among the Arabs and theMohammedans generally.
allantoic: Pertaining to, or contained in, the allantois. Allantoic acid.(Chem.) See Allantoin.
allayer: One who, or that which, allays.
alledge: See Allege. [Obs.]
allegation: A statement by a party of what he undertakes to prove, --usually applied to each separate averment; the charge or matterundertaken to be proved.
allegorization: The act of turning into allegory, or of understanding in anallegorical sense.
aller: Same as Alder, of all. [Obs.] Chaucer.
alligation: A rule relating to the solution of questions concerning thecompounding or mixing of different ingredients, or ingredients ofdifferent qualities or values.
allignment: See Alignment.
allision: The act of dashing against, or striking upon.The boisterous allision of the sea. Woodward.
alliterate: To employ or place so as to make alliteration. Skeat.
alloxanic: Of or pertaining to alloxan; -- applied to an acid obtained bythe action of soluble alkalies on alloxan.
allspice: The berry of the pimento (Eugenia pimenta), a tree of the WestIndies; a spice of a mildly pungent taste, and agreeably aromatic;Jamaica pepper; pimento. It has been supposed to combine the flavorof cinnamon, nutmegs, and cloves; and hence the name. The name isalso given to other aromatic shrubs; as, the Carolina allspice(Calycanthus floridus); wild allspice (Lindera benzoin), called alsospicebush, spicewood, and feverbush.
allude: To refer to something indirectly or by suggestion; to havereference to a subject not specifically and plainly mentioned; --followed by to; as, the story alludes to a recent transaction.These speeches . . . do seem to allude unto such ministerial garmentsas were then in use. Hooker.
almond: One of the tonsils. Almond oil, fixed oil expressed from sweetor bitter almonds.-- Oil of bitter almonds, a poisonous volatile oil obtained frombitter almonds by maceration and distillation; benzoic aldehyde.-- Imitation oil of bitter almonds, nitrobenzene.-- Almond tree (Bot.), the tree bearing the almond.-- Almond willow (Bot.), a willow which has leaves that are of alight green on both sides; almond-leaved willow (Salix amygdalina).Shenstone.
alongst: Along. [Obs.]
alow: Below; in a lower part. "Aloft, and then alow." Dryden.
alphol: A crystalline derivative of salicylic acid, used as anantiseptic and antirheumatic.
already: Prior to some specified time, either past, present, or future;by this time; previously. "Joseph was in Egypt already." Exod. i. 5.I say unto you, that Elias is come already. Matt. xvii. 12.
alternator: An electric generator or dynamo for producing alternatingcurrents.
although: Grant all this; be it that; supposing that; notwithstanding;though.Although all shall be offended, yet will no I. Mark xiv. 29.
altisonous: Altisonant.
altitudinal: Of or pertaining to height; as, altitudinal measurements.
alumine: Alumina. Davy.
aluminous: Pertaining to or containing alum, or alumina; as, aluminousminerals, aluminous solution.
alumish: Somewhat like alum.
alumna: A female pupil; especially, a graduate of a school or college.
alunite: Alum stone.
alveolar: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, alveoli or little cells,sacs, or sockets. Alveolar processes, the processes of the maxillarybones, containing the sockets of the teeth.
alveolate: Deeply pitted, like a honeycomb.
amadou: A spongy, combustible substance, prepared from fungus (Boletusand Polyporus) which grows on old trees; German tinder; punk. It hasbeen employed as a styptic by surgeons, but its common use is astinder, for which purpose it is prepared by soaking it in a strongsolution of niter. Ure.
amaracus: A fragrant flower. Tennyson.
amatorial: Of or pertaining to a lover or to love making; amatory; as,amatorial verses.
amatory: Pertaining to, producing, or expressing, sexual love; as,amatory potions.
amaurosis: A loss or decay of sight, from loss of power in the opticnerve, without any perceptible external change in the eye; -- calledalso gutta serena, the "drop serene" of Milton.
amaurotic: Affected with amaurosis; having the characteristics ofamaurosis.
amaze: To be astounded. [Archaic] B. Taylor.
ambassadress: A female ambassador; also, the wife of an ambassador. Prescott.
ambergrease: See Ambergris.
ambigu: An entertainment at which a medley of dishes is set on at thesame time.
ambulacriform: Having the form of ambulacra.
ambuscadoed: Posted in ambush; ambuscaded. [Obs.]
amelioration: The act of ameliorating, or the state of being ameliorated;making or becoming better; improvement; melioration. "Amelioration ofhuman affairs." J. S. Mill.
amenability: The quality of being amenable; amenableness. Coleridge.
amend: To change or modify in any way for the better; as,(a) by simply removing what is erroneous, corrupt, superfluous,faulty, and the like;(b) by supplying deficiencies;(c) by substituting something else in the place of what is removed;to rectify.Mar not the thing that can not be amended. Shak.An instant emergency, granting no possibility for revision, oropening for amended thought. De Quincey.We shall cheer her sorrows, and amend her blood, by wedding her to aNorman. Sir W. Scott.To amend a bill, to make some change in the details or provisions ofa bill or measure while on its passage, professedly for itsimprovement.
amentiferous: Bearing catkins. Balfour.
amethodist: One without method; a quack. [Obs.]
amine: One of a class of strongly basic substances derived fromammonia by replacement of one or more hydrogen atoms by a basic atomor radical.
amioidei: An order of ganoid fishes of which Amis is type. See Bowfin andGanoidei.
amiss: Astray; faultily; improperly; wrongly; ill.What error drives our eyes and ears amiss Shak.Ye ask and receive not, because ye ask amiss. James iv. 3.To take (an act, thing) amiss, to impute a wrong motive to (an act orthing); to take offense at' to take unkindly; as, you must not takethese questions amiss.
ammonia: A gaseous compound of hydrogen and nitrogen, NH3, with apungent smell and taste
amnion: A thin membrane surrounding the embryos of mammals, birds, andreptiles.
amniota: That group of vertebrates which develops in its embryonic lifethe envelope called the amnion. It comprises the reptiles, the birds,and the mammals.
amorpha: A genus of leguminous shrubs, having long clusters of purpleflowers; false or bastard indigo. Longfellow.
amortizement: Same as Amortization.
amphibiotica: A division of insects having aquatic larvæ.
amphibium: An amphibian.
amphiblastic: Segmenting unequally; -- said of telolecithal ova with completesegmentation.
amphidromical: Pertaining to an Attic festival at the naming of a child; -- socalled because the friends of the parents carried the child aroundthe hearth and then named it.
amphigonic: Pertaining to amphigony; sexual; as, amphigonic propagation.[R.]
amphigony: Sexual propagation. [R.]
amphioxus: A fishlike creature (Amphioxus lanceolatus), two or threeinches long, found in temperature seas; -- also called the lancelet.Its body is pointed at both ends. It is the lowest and mostgeneralized of the vertebrates, having neither brain, skull,vertebræ, nor red blood. It forms the type of the group Acrania,Leptocardia, etc.
ample: Large; great in size, extent, capacity, or bulk; spacious;roomy; widely extended.All the people in that ample house Did to that image bow their humbleknees. Spenser.
amplificate: To amplify. [Obs.] Bailey.
ampulliform: Flask-shaped; dilated.
ampyx: A woman's headband (sometimes of metal), for binding the fronthair.
amusette: A light field cannon, or stocked gun mounted on a swivel.
amvis: An explosive consisting of ammonium nitrate, a derivative ofnitrobenzene, chlorated napthalene, and wood meal.
amylolysis: The conversion of starch into soluble products, as dextrins andsugar, esp. by the action of enzymes. -- Am`y*lo*lyt"ic (#), a.
anabaptist: A name sometimes applied to a member of any sect holding thatrebaptism is necessary for those baptized in infancy.
anabolism: The constructive metabolism of the body, as distinguished fromkatabolism.
anacrotic: Pertaining to anachronism.
anaesthesis: See Anæsthesia.
anagram: Literally, the letters of a word read backwards, but in itsusual wider sense, the change or one word or phrase into another bythe transposition of its letters. Thus Galenus becomes angelus;William Noy (attorney-general to Charles I., and a laborious man) maybe turned into I moyl in law.
analogize: To employ, or reason by, analogy.
analysis: The separation of a compound substance, by chemical processes,into its constituents, with a view to ascertain either (a) whatelements it contains, or (b) how much of each element is present. Theformer is called qualitative, and the latter quantitative analysis.
analyzation: The act of analyzing, or separating into constituent parts;analysis.
anamniotic: Without, or not developing, an amnion.
anamorphosy: Same as Anamorphosis.
anaphrodisiac: Same as Antaphrodisiac. Dunglison.
anaptotic: Having lost, or tending to lose, inflections by phonetic decay;as, anaptotic languages.
anarchal: Lawless; anarchical. [R.]We are in the habit of calling those bodies of men anarchal which arein a state of effervescence. Landor.
anastomotic: Of or pertaining to anastomosis.
anatocism: Compound interest. [R.] Bouvier.
anatto: Same as Annotto.
ancestor: An earlier type; a progenitor; as, this fossil animal isregarded as the ancestor of the horse.
ancient: Those who lived in former ages, as opposed to the moderns.
ancome: A small ulcerous swelling, coming suddenly; also, a whitlow.[Obs.] Boucher.
andabatism: Doubt; uncertainty. [Obs.] Shelford.
andarac: Red orpiment. Coxe.
andine: Andean; as, Andine flora.
androphagi: Cannibals; man-eaters; anthropophagi. [R.]
androspore: A spore of some algæ, which has male functions.
anemograph: An instrument for measuring and recording the direction andforce of the wind. Knight.
anemographic: Produced by an anemograph; of or pertaining to anemography.
anemone: A genus of plants of the Ranunculus or Crowfoot family;windflower. Some of the species are cultivated in gardens.
anfractuose: Anfractuous; as, anfractuose anthers.
angelolatry: Worship paid to angels.
angerly: Angrily. [Obs. or Poetic]Why, how now, Hecate! you look angerly. Shak.
angina: Any inflammatory affection of the throat or faces, as thequinsy, malignant sore throat, croup, etc., especially such as tendsto produce suffocation, choking, or shortness of breath. Anginapectoris, a peculiarly painful disease, so named from a sense ofsuffocating contraction or tightening of the lower part of the chest;-- called also breast pang, spasm of the chest.
angler: A fish (Lophius piscatorius), of Europe and America, having alarge, broad, and depressed head, with the mouth very large. Peculiarappendages on the head are said to be used to entice fishes withinreach. Called also fishing frog, frogfish, toadfish, goosefish,allmouth, monkfish, etc.
anglian: Of or pertaining to the Angles.-- n.
anguilliform: Eel-shaped.
angularity: The quality or state of being angular; angularness.
angusticlave: A narrow stripe of purple worn by the equites on each side ofthe tunic as a sign of rank.
anharmonic: Not harmonic. The anharmonic function or ratio of four pointsabcd on a straight line is the quantity (ac/ad):(bc/bd), where thesegments are to regarded as plus or minus, according to the order ofthe letters.
anhydrous: Destitute of water; as, anhydrous salts or acids.
anile: Old-womanish; imbecile. "Anile ideas." Walpole.
animistic: Of or pertaining to animism. Huxley. Tylor.
animus: Animating spirit; intention; temper. nimus furandi Etym
anise: An umbelliferous plant (Pimpinella anisum) growing naturally inEgypt, and cultivated in Spain, Malta, etc., for its carminative andaromatic seeds.
anisocoria: Inequality of the pupils of the eye.
ankh: A tau cross with a loop at the top, used as an attribute orsacred emblem, symbolizing generation or enduring life. Called alsocrux ansata.
annealer: One who, or that which, anneals.
annexer: One who annexes.
annihilatory: Annihilative.
anniversarily: Annually. [R.] Bp. Hall.
announcement: The act of announcing, or giving notice; that which announces;proclamation; publication.
annularity: Annular condition or form; as, the annularity of a nebula. J.Rogers.
annumeration: Addition to a former number. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
anodynous: Anodyne.
anomaliped: One of a group of perching birds, having the middle toe more orless united to the outer and inner ones.
anosmia: Loss of the sense of smell.
antares: The principal star in Scorpio
antelucan: Held or being before light; -- a word applied to assemblies ofChristians, in ancient times of persecution, held before light in themorning. "Antelucan worship." De Quincey.
antemetic: Tending to check vomiting.-- n.
antennule: A small antenna; -- applied to the smaller pair of antennæ orfeelers of Crustacea.
antepast: A foretaste.Antepasts of joy and comforts. Jer. Taylor.
antepredicament: A prerequisite to a clear understanding of the predicaments andcategories, such as definitions of common terms. Chambers.
anthemion: A floral ornament. See Palmette.
anthobian: A beetle which feeds on flowers.
anthodium: The inflorescence of a compound flower in which many floretsare gathered into a involucrate head.
anthophilous: Lit., fond of flowers; hence, feeding upon, or living among,flowers.
anthophore: The stipe when developed into an internode between calyx andcorolla, as in the Pink family. Gray.
anthracene: A solid hydrocarbon, C6H4.C2H2.C6H4, which accompaniesnaphthalene in the last stages of the distillation of coal tar. Itschief use is in the artificial production of alizarin. [Written alsoanthracin.]
anthracite: A hard, compact variety of mineral coal, of high luster,differing from bituminous coal in containing little or no bitumen, inconsequence of which it burns with a nearly non luminous flame. Thepurer specimens consist almost wholly of carbon. Also called glancecoal and blind coal.
antiattrition: Anything to prevent the effects of friction, esp. a compoundlubricant for machinery, etc., often consisting of plumbago, withsome greasy material; antifriction grease.
antibubonic: Good or used against bubonic plague; as, antibubonic serum,obtained from immunized horses; antibubonic vaccine, a sterilizedbouillon culture of the plague bacillus; antibubonic measures.
anticathode: The part of a vacuum tube opposite the cathode. Upon it thecathode rays impinge.
anticipator: One who anticipates.
antiepileptic: Same as Antepileptic.
antigalastic: Causing a diminution or a suppression of the secretion of milk.
antilithic: Tending to prevent the formation of urinary calculi, or todestroy them when formed.-- n.
antimetathesis: An antithesis in which the members are repeated in inverseorder.
antimeter: A modification of the quadrant, for measuring small angles.[Obs.]
antimonarchist: An enemy to monarchial government.
antimoniureted: Combined with or containing antimony; as, antimoniuretedhydrogen. [Written also antimoniuretted.]
antinomianism: The tenets or practice of Antinomians. South.
antinomist: An Antinomian. [R.] Bp. Sanderson.
antiperiodic: A remedy possessing the property of preventing the return ofperiodic paroxysms, or exacerbations, of disease, as in intermittentfevers.
antipharmic: Antidotal; alexipharmic.
antipyrine: An artificial alkaloid, believed to be efficient in abatingfever.
antiquate: To make old, or obsolete; to make antique; to make old in sucha degree as to put out of use; hence, to make void, or abrogate.Christianity might reasonably introduce new laws, and antiquate orabrogate old one. Sir M. Hale.
antiquated: Grown old. Hence
antiscriptural: Opposed to, or not in accordance with, the Holy Scriptures.
antiseptic: A substance which prevents or retards putrefaction, ordestroys, or protects from, putrefactive organisms; as, salt,carbolic acid, alcohol, cinchona.
antisialagogue: Checking the flow of saliva.
antislavery: Opposed to slavery.-- n.
antispast: A foot of four syllables, the first and fourth short, and thesecond and third long.
antizymotic: Preventing fermentation or decomposition.-- n.
antonomastic: Pertaining to, or characterized by, antonomasia.-- An`to*no*mas"tic*al*ly, adv.
antorbital: Pertaining to, or situated in, the region of the front of theorbit.-- n.
any: To any extent; in any degree; at all.You are not to go loose any longer. Shak.Before you go any farther. Steele.
anything: In any measure; anywise; at all.Mine old good will and hearty affection towards you is not . . .anything at all quailed. Robynson (More's Utopia).
anywise: In any wise or way; at all. "Anywise essential." Burke.
apaches: A group of nomadic North American Indians including severaltribes native of Arizona, New Mexico, etc.
apagoge: An indirect argument which proves a thing by showing theimpossibility or absurdity of the contrary.
apellous: Destitute of skin. Brande & C.
aper: One who apes.
apercu: A first view or glance, or the perception or estimation soobtained; an immediate apprehension or insight, appreciative ratherthan analytic.
apert: Open; ev [Archaic] Fotherby.
aphanipterous: Of or pertaining to the Aphaniptera.
aphid: One of the genus Aphis; an aphidian.
aphides: See Aphis.
aphidian: Of or pertaining to the family Aphidæ.-- n.
aphthous: Pertaining to, or caused by, aphthæ; characterized by aphtæ;as, aphthous ulcers; aphthous fever.
apiculture: Rearing of bees for their honey and wax.
apis: A genus of insects of the order Hymenoptera, including thecommon honeybee (Apis mellifica) and other related species. SeeHoneybee.
apitpat: With quick beating or palpitation; pitapat. Congreve.
aplacophora: A division of Amphineura in which the body is naked or coveredwith slender spines or setæ, but is without shelly plates.
aplastic: Not plastic or easily molded.
aplustre: An ornamental appendage of wood at the ship's stern, usuallyspreading like a fan and curved like a bird's feather. Audsley.
aplysia: A genus of marine mollusks of the order Tectibranchiata; thesea hare. Some of the species when disturbed throw out a deep purpleliquor, which colors the water to some distance. See Illust. inAppendix.
aponeurotomy: Dissection of aponeuroses.
apopemptic: Sung or addressed to one departing; valedictory; as, apoplecticsongs or hymns.
apophysis: A marked prominence or process on any part of a bone.
apostatical: Apostate.An heretical and apostatical church. Bp. Hall.
apostatize: To renounce totally a religious belief once professed; toforsake one's church, the faith or principles once held, or the partyto which one has previously adhered.He apostatized from his old faith in facts, took to believing inCarlyle.
apostemation: The formation of an aposteme; the process of suppuration.[Written corruptly imposthumation.] Wiseman.
apostrophic: Pertaining to an apostrophe, grammatical or rhetorical.
apostrophize: To use the rhetorical figure called apostrophe.
apparentness: Plainness to the eye or the mind; visibleness; obviousness.[R.] Sherwood.
appaume: A hand open and extended so as to show the palm.
appendaged: Furnished with, or supplemented by, an appendage.
appetent: Desiring; eagerly desirous. [R.]Appetent after glory and renown. Sir G. Buck.
applaud: To express approbation loudly or significantly.
applause: The act of applauding; approbation and praise publiclyexpressed by clapping the hands, stamping or tapping with the feet,acclamation, huzzas, or other means; marked commendation.The brave man seeks not popular applause. Dryden.
appliable: Applicable; also, compliant. [Obs.] Howell.
applicate: Applied or put to some use.Those applicate sciences which extend the power of man over theelements. I. Taylor.Applicate number (Math.), one which applied to some concrete case.-- Applicate ordinate, right line applied at right angles to theaxis of any conic section, and bounded by the curve.
appointive: Subject to appointment; as, an appointive office. [R.]
apportioner: One who apportions.
apprehensibiity: The quality of being apprehensible. [R.] De Quincey.
apprenticeage: Apprenticeship. [Obs.]
approaching: The act of ingrafting a sprig or shoot of one tree intoanother, without cutting it from the parent stock; -- called, also,inarching and grafting by approach.
aptable: Capable of being adapted. [Obs.] Sherwood.
apteral: Apterous.
aptychus: A shelly plate found in the terminal chambers of ammoniteshells. Some authors consider them to be jaws; others, opercula.
aquapuncture: The introduction of water subcutaneously for the relief ofpain.
aquarelle: A design or painting in thin transparent water colors; also,the mode of painting in such colors.
araba: A wagon or cart, usually heavy and without springs, and oftencovered. [Oriental]
arabism: An Arabic idiom peculiarly of language. Stuart.
arachnologist: One who is versed in, or studies, arachnology.
araneidan: Of or pertaining to the Araneina or spiders.-- n.
araucaria: A genus of tall conifers of the pine family. The species areconfined mostly to South America and Australia. The wood cells differfrom those of other in having the dots in their lateral surfaces intwo or three rows, and the dots of contiguous rows alternating. Theseeds are edible.
arbitratrix: A female who arbitrates or judges.
arblast: A crossbow. See Arbalest.
arborescence: The state of being arborescent; the resemblance to a tree inminerals, or crystallizations, or groups of crystals in that form;as, the arborescence produced by precipitating silver.
arboret: A small tree or shrub. [Obs.] Spenser.Among thick-woven arborets, and flowers Imbordered on each bank.Milton.
arboretum: A place in which a collection of rare trees and shrubs iscultivated for scientific or educational purposes.
arboricole: Tree-inhabiting; -- said of certain birds.
arbustive: Containing copses of trees or shrubs; covered with shrubs.Bartram.
archaeozoic: Like or belonging to the earliest forms of animal life.
archbutler: A chief butler; -- an officer of the German empire.
archchemic: Of supreme chemical powers. [R.] "The archchemic sun." Milton.
archdeaconry: The district, office, or residence of an archdeacon. SeeBenefice.Every diocese is divided into archdeaconries. Blackstone.
archelogy: The science of, or a treatise on, first principles. Fleming.
archer: A bowman, one skilled in the use of the bow and arrow.
archeress: A female archer. Markham.
archiepiscopal: Of or pertaining to an archbishop; as, Canterbury is anarchiepiscopal see.
archonts: The group including man alone.
archprelate: An archbishop or other chief prelate.
areola: The colored ring around the nipple, or around a vesicle orpustule.
areolet: A small inclosed area; esp. one of the small spaces on thewings of insects, circumscribed by the veins.
argas: A genus of venomous ticks which attack men and animals. Thefamous Persian Argas, also called Miana bug, is A. Persicus; that ofCentral America, called talaje by the natives, is A. Talaje.
argean: Pertaining to the ship Argo. See Argo.
argonaut: A cephalopod of the genus Argonauta.
argonauta: A genus of Cephalopoda. The shell is called paper nautilus orpaper sailor.
arianism: The doctrines of the Arians.
arianize: To admit or accept the tenets of the Arians; to become anArian.
ariman: See Ahriman.
aristate: Having a pointed, beardlike process, as the glumes of wheat;awned. Gray.
aristulate: Pertaining a short beard or awn. Gray.
arithmetical: Of or pertaining to arithmetic; according to the rules ormethod of arithmetic. Arithmetical complement of a logarithm. SeeLogarithm.-- Arithmetical mean. See Mean.-- Arithmetical progression. See Progression.-- Arithmetical proportion. See Proportion.
armet: A kind of helmet worn in the 14th, 15th, and 16th centuries.
armgaunt: With gaunt or slender legs. "An armgaunt steed." Shak.
armipotence: Power in arms. [R.] Johnson.
armipotent: Powerful in arms; mighty in battle.The temple stood of Mars armipotent. Dryden.
armory: A thick plain silk, generally black, and used for clerical.Simmonds.
armpit: The hollow beneath the junction of the arm and shoulder; theaxilla.
arnicine: An alkaloid obtained from the arnica plant.
arnotto: Same as Annotto.
aroma: Pertaining to, or containing, aroma; fragrant; spicy; strong-scented; odoriferous; as, aromatic balsam. Aromatic compound (Chem.),one of a large class of organic substances, as the oils of bitteralmonds, wintergreen, and turpentine, the balsams, camphors, etc.,many of which have an aromatic odor. They include many of the mostimportant of the carbon compounds and may all be derived from thebenzene group, C6H6. The term is extended also to many of theirderivatives.-- Aromatic vinegar. See under Vinegar.
aromatize: To impregnate with aroma; to render aromatic; to give a spicyscent or taste to; to perfume. Bacon.
arousal: The act of arousing, or the state of being aroused.Whatever has associated itself with the arousal and activity of ourbetter nature. Hare.
arpentator: The Anglicized form of the French arpenteur, a land surveyor.[R.]
arrach: See Orach.
arrastre: A rude apparatus for pulverizing ores, esp. those containingfree gold.
arrentation: A letting or renting, esp. a license to inclose land in aforest with a low hedge and a ditch, under a yearly rent.
arrest: To take, seize, or apprehend by authority of law; as, to arrestone for debt, or for a crime.
arrogantly: In an arrogant manner; with undue pride or self-importance.
arrogative: Making undue claims and pretension; prone to arrogance. [R.]Dr. H. More.
arseniureted: Combined with arsenic; -- said some elementary substances orradicals; as, arseniureted hydrogen. [Also spelt arseniuretted.]
arsesmart: Smartweed; water pepper. Dr. Prior.
art: The second person singular, indicative mode, present tense, ofthe substantive verb Be; but formed after the analogy of the pluralare, with the ending -t, as in thou shalt, wilt, orig. an ending ofthe second person sing. pret. Cf. Be. Now used only in solemn orpoetical style.
artemisia: A genus of plants including the plants called mugwort,southernwood, and wormwood. Of these A. absinthium, or commonwormwood, is well known, and A. tridentata is the sage brush of theRocky Mountain region.
arteriology: That part of anatomy which treats of arteries.
arthrodia: A form of diarthrodial articulation in which the articularsurfaces are nearly flat, so that they form only an imperfect balland socket.
arthrogastra: A division of the Arachnida, having the abdomen annulated,including the scorpions, harvestmen, etc.; pedipalpi.
arthrostraca: One of the larger divisions of Crustacea, so called because thethorax and abdomen are both segmented; Tetradecapoda. It includes theAmphipoda and Isopoda.
articled: Bound by articles; apprenticed; as, an articled clerk.
articularly: In an articular or an articulate manner.
articulator: One who, or that which, articulates; as
artiodactyle: One of the Artiodactyla.
artotype: A kind of autotype.
aruspex: One of the class of diviners among the Etruscans and Romans,who foretold events by the inspection of the entrails of victimsoffered on the altars of the gods.
asarone: A crystallized substance, resembling camphor, obtained from theAsarum Europæum; -- called also camphor of asarum.
ascidium: A pitcher-shaped, or flask-shaped, organ or appendage of aplant, as the leaves of the pitcher plant, or the little bladderliketraps of the bladderwort (Utricularia).
asiaticism: Something peculiar to Asia or the Asiatics.
asper: Rough; rugged; harsh; bitter; stern; fierce. [Archaic] "Anasper sound." Bacon.
aspermatous: Aspermous.
asphalt: To cover with asphalt; as, to asphalt a roof; asphaltedstreets.
asphyxiation: The act of causing asphyxia; a state of asphyxia.
aspire: To aspire to; to long for; to try to reach; to mount to. [Obs.]That gallant spirit hath aspired the clouds. Shak.
assart: The act or offense of grubbing up trees and bushes, and thusdestroying the tickets or coverts of a forest. Spelman. Cowell.
assassin: One who kills, or attempts to kill, by surprise or secretassault; one who treacherously murders any one unprepared fordefense.
assecuration: Assurance; certainty. [Obs.]
assessee: One who is assessed.
assessorship: The office or function of an assessor.
assibilate: To make sibilant; to change to a sibilant. J. Peile.
assignable: Capable of being assigned, allotted, specified, or designated;as, an assignable note or bill; an assignable reason; an assignablequantity.
assimilation: The conversion of nutriment into the fluid or solid substanceof the body, by the processes of digestion and absorption, whether inplants or animals.Not conversing the body, not repairing it by assimilation, butpreserving it by ventilation. Sir T. Browne.
associableness: Associability.
assorted: Selected; culled.
assot: To besot; to befool; to beguile; to infatuate. [Obs.]Some ecstasy assotted had his sense. Spenser.
assuage: To soften, in a figurative sense; to allay, mitigate, ease, orlessen, as heat, pain, or grief; to appease or pacify, as passion ortumult; to satisfy, as appetite or desire.Refreshing winds the summer's heat assuage. Addison.To assuage the sorrows of a desolate old man Burke.The fount at which the panting mind assuages Her thirst of knowledge.Byron.
assumpt: To take up; to elevate; to assume. [Obs.] Sheldon.
assurgency: Act of rising.The . . . assurgency of the spirit through the body. Coleridge.
asswage: See Assuage.
astatically: In an astatic manner.
astaticism: The state of being astatic.
asteroidal: Of or pertaining to an asteroid, or to the asteroids.
astragalar: Of or pertaining to the astragalus.
astronomize: To study or to talk astronomy. [R.]They astronomized in caves. Sir T. Browne.
astrophotography: The application of photography to the delineation of the sun,moon, and stars.
astrophotometer: A photometer for measuring the brightness of stars.
asturian: Of or pertaining to Asturias in Spain.-- n.
asweve: To stupefy. [Obs.] Chaucer.
aswooned: In a swoon.
asymmetrous: Asymmetrical. [Obs.] Barrow.
asymptote: A line which approaches nearer to some curve than assignabledistance, but, though infinitely extended, would never meet it.Asymptotes may be straight lines or curves. A rectilinear asymptotemay be conceived as a tangent to the curve at an infinite distance.
athalamous: Not furnished with shields or beds for the spores, as thethallus of certain lichens.
atheroid: Shaped like an ear of grain.
athetosis: A variety of chorea, marked by peculiar tremors of the fingersand toes.
athlete: One who contended for a prize in the public games of ancientGreece or Rome.
athwart: Across the direction or course of; as, a fleet standing athwartour course. Athwart hawse, across the stem of another vessel, whetherin contact or at a small distance.-- Athwart ships, across the ship from side to side, or in thatdirection; -- opposed to fore and aft.
atmolyzer: An apparatus for effecting atmolysis.
atomicism: Atomism. [Obs.]
atomicity: Degree of atomic attraction; equivalence; valence; also (alater use) the number of atoms in an elementary molecule. SeeValence.
atony: Want of tone; weakness of the system, or of any organ,especially of such as are contractile.
atrenne: To outrun. [Obs.] Chaucer.
atrial: Of or pertaining to an atrium.
atrocha: A kind of chætopod larva in which no circles of cilia aredeveloped.
atrous: Coal-black; very black.
attack: To make an onset or attack.
attainability: The quality of being attainable; attainbleness.
attemperance: Temperance; attemperament. [Obs.] Chaucer.
attemperation: The act of attempering or regulating. [Archaic] Bacon.
attestive: Attesting; furnishing evidence.
attic: Of or pertaining to Attica, in Greece, or to Athens, itsprincipal city; marked by such qualities as were characteristic ofthe Athenians; classical; refined. Attic base (Arch.), a peculiarform of molded base for a column or pilaster, described by Vitruvius,applied under the Roman Empire to the Ionic and Corinthian and "RomanDoric" orders, and imitated by the architects of the Renaissance.-- Attic faith, inviolable faith.-- Attic purity, special purity of language.-- Attic salt, Attic wit, a poignant, delicate wit, peculiar to theAthenians.-- Attic story. See Attic, n.-- Attic style, a style pure and elegant.
attitudinize: To assume affected attitudes; to strike an attitude; to pose.Maria, who is the most picturesque figure, was put to attitudinize atthe harp. Hannah More.
attle: Rubbish or refuse consisting of broken rock containing littleor no ore. Weale.
attractivity: The quality or degree of attractive power.
attrahent: Attracting; drawing; attractive.
aubin: A broken gait of a horse, between an amble and a gallop; --commonly called a Canterbury gallop.
audibility: The quality of being audible; power of being heard; audiblecapacity.
augural: Of or pertaining to augurs or to augury; betokening; ominous;significant; as, an augural staff; augural books. "Portents augural."Cowper.
augurous: Full of augury; foreboding. [Obs.] "Augurous hearts." Chapman.
auntrous: Adventurous. [Obs.] Chaucer.
aurichalceous: Brass-colored.
auriferous: Gold-bearing; containing or producing gold.Whence many a bursting stream auriferous plays. Thomson.~= pyrites, iron pyrites (iron disulphide), containing some golddisseminated through it.
aurigal: Of or pertaining to a chariot. [R.]
aurin: A red coloring matter derived from phenol; -- called also, incommerce, yellow coralin.
aurist: One skilled in treating and curing disorders of the ear.
auscultate: To practice auscultation; to examine by auscultation.
austin: Augustinian; as, Austin friars.
austrian: Of or pertaining to Austria, or to its inhabitants.-- n.
authentic: Vested with all due formalities, and legally attested.
autogamous: Characterized by autogamy; self-fertilized.
autogenetic: Relating to autogenesis; self-generated.
autonomous: Having independent existence or laws.
autoplasty: The process of artificially repairing lesions by taking a pieceof healthy tissue, as from a neighboring part, to supply thedeficiency caused by disease or wounds.
avadavat: Same as Amadavat.
availably: In an available manner; profitably; advantageously;efficaciously.
avena: A genus of grasses, including the common oat (Avena sativa);the oat grasses.
avengement: The inflicting of retributive punishment; satisfaction taken.[R.] Milton.
avengeress: A female avenger. [Obs.] Spenser.
averruncator: An instrument for pruning trees, consisting of two blades, or ablade and a hook, fixed on the end of a long rod.
averter: One who, or that which, averts.
avisely: Advisedly. [Obs.] Chaucer.
awake: To cease to sleep; to come out of a state of natural sleep;and, figuratively, out of a state resembling sleep, as inaction ordeath.The national spirit again awoke. Freeman.Awake to righteousness, and sin not. 1 Cor. xv. 34.
awarder: One who awards, or assigns by sentence or judicialdetermination; a judge.
aworking: At work; in action. [Archaic or Colloq.] Spenser.
axinite: A borosilicate of alumina, iron, and lime, commonly found inglassy, brown crystals with acute edges.
ay: Ah! alas! "Ay me! I fondly dream `Had ye been there.'" Milton.
azonic: Confined to no zone or region; not local.
azygous: Odd; having no fellow; not one of a pair; single; as, theazygous muscle of the uvula.
baa: To cry baa, or bleat as a sheep.He treble baas for help, but none can get. Sir P. Sidney.
bab: Lit., gate; -- a title given to the founder of Babism, andtaken from that of Bab-ud-Din, assumed by him.
baba: A kind of plum cake.
babbitt: To line with Babbitt metal.
babblery: Babble. [Obs.] Sir T. More
babish: Like a babe; a childish; babyish. [R.] "Babish imbecility."Drayton.-- Bab"ish*ly, adv.-- Bab"ish*ness, n. [R.]
baboonish: Like a baboon.
bachelorship: The state of being a bachelor.
backbiting: Secret slander; detraction.Backbiting, and bearing of false witness. Piers Plowman.
backhandedness: State of being backhanded; the using of backhanded or indirectmethods.
backwoodsman: A men living in the forest in or beyond the new settlements,especially on the western frontiers of the older portions of theUnited States. Fisher Ames.
bacterioscopic: Relating to bacterioscopy; as, a bacterioscopic examination.
bacterium: A microscopic vegetable organism, belonging to the class Algæ,usually in the form of a jointed rodlike filament, and found inputrefying organic infusions. Bacteria are destitute of chlorophyll,and are the smallest of microscopic organisms. They are very widelydiffused in nature, and multiply with marvelous rapidity, both byfission and by spores. Certain species are active agents infermentation, while others appear to be the cause of certaininfectious diseases. See Bacillus.
baculite: A cephalopod of the extinct genus Baculites, found fossil inthe Cretaceous rocks. It is like an uncoiled ammonite.
baenopod: One of the thoracic legs of Arthropods.
baenosome: The thorax of Arthropods. Packard.
bag: A certain quantity of a commodity, such as it is customary tocarry to market in a sack; as, a bag of pepper or hops; a bag ofcoffee. Bag and baggage, all that belongs to one.-- To give one the bag, to disappoint him. [Obs.] Bunyan.
bagging: Reaping peas, beans, wheat, etc., with a chopping stroke.[Eng.]
bail: A bucket or scoop used in bailing water out of a boat. [Obs.]The bail of a canoe . . . made of a human skull. Capt. Cook.
bailiff: A sheriff's deputy, appointed to make arrests, collect fines,summon juries, etc.
balaam: A paragraph describing something wonderful, used to fill out anewspaper column; -- an allusion to the miracle of Balaam's assspeaking. Numb. xxii. 30. [Cant] Balaam basket or box (Print.), thereceptacle for rejected articles. Blackw. Mag.
balanite: A fossil balanoid shell.
balcon: A balcony. [Obs.] Pepys.
baldachin: A structure in form of a canopy, sometimes supported bycolumns, and sometimes suspended from the roof or projecting from thewall; generally placed over an altar; as, the baldachin in St.Peter's.
baldness: The state or condition of being bald; as, baldness of the head;baldness of style.This gives to their syntax a peculiar character of simplicity andbaldness. W. D. Whitney.
bale: A bundle or package of goods in a cloth cover, and corded forstorage or transportation; also, a bundle of straw Bale of dice, apair of dice. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
balladry: Ballad poems; the subject or style of ballads. "Base balladryis so beloved." Drayton.
ballista: An ancient military engine, in the form of a crossbow, used forhurling large missiles.
ballotage: In France, a second ballot taken after an indecisive firstballot to decide between two or several candidates.
ballow: A cudgel. [Obs.] Shak.
balotade: See Ballotade.
balsam: To treat or anoint with balsam; to relieve, as with balsam; torender balsamic.
balustrade: A row of balusters topped by a rail, serving as an openparapet, as along the edge of a balcony, terrace, bridge, staircase,or the eaves of a building.
bambino: A child or baby; esp., a representation in art of the infantChrist wrapped in swaddling clothes.
bandore: A musical stringed instrument, similar in form to a guitar; apandore.
bane: To be the bane of; to ruin. [Obs.] Fuller.
banian: The Indian fig. See Banyan. Banian days (Naut.), days in whichthe sailors have no flesh meat served out to them. This use seems tobe borrowed from the Banians or Banya race, who eat no flesh.
bantam: A variety of small barnyard fowl, with feathered legs, probablybrought from Bantam, a district of Java.
banter: The act of bantering; joking or jesting; humorous or good-humored raillery; pleasantry.Part banter, part affection. Tennyson.
banterer: One who banters or rallies.
baptism: The act of baptizing; the application of water to a person, asa sacrament or religious ceremony, by which he is initiated into thevisible church of Christ. This is performed by immersion, sprinkling,or pouring.
baptistic: Of or for baptism; baptismal.
baptization: Baptism. [Obs.]Their baptizations were null. Jer. Taylor.
barble: See Barbel.
bardism: The system of bards; the learning and maxims of bards.
barefoot: With the feet bare; without shoes or stockings.
barefooted: Having the feet bare.
barenecked: Having the neck bare.
barnyard: A yard belonging to a barn.
barocco: See Baroque.
baron: A husband; as, baron and feme, husband and wife. [R.] Cowell.Baron of beef, two sirloins not cut asunder at the backbone.-- Barons of the Cinque Ports, formerly members of the House ofCommons, elected by the seven Cinque Ports, two for each port.-- Baron of the exchequer, the judges of the Court of Exchequer, oneof the three ancient courts of England, now abolished.
barouche: A four-wheeled carriage, with a falling top, a seat on theoutside for the driver, and two double seats on the inside arrangedso that the sitters on the front seat face those on the back seat.
barrage: An artificial bar or obstruction placed in a river or watercourse to increase the depth of water; as, the barrages of the Nile.
barrel: The hollow basal part of a feather. Barrel bulk (Com.), ameasure equal to five cubic feet, used in estimating capacity, as ofa vessel for freight.-- Barrel drain (Arch.), a drain in the form of a cylindrical tube.-- Barrel of a boiler, the cylindrical part of a boiler, containingthe flues.-- Barrel of the ear (Anat.), the tympanum, or tympanic cavity.-- Barrel organ, an instrument for producing music by the action ofa revolving cylinder.-- Barrel vault. See under Vault.
barrenness: The condition of being barren; sterility; unproductiveness.A total barrenness of invention. Dryden.
barwise: Horizontally.
baryphony: Difficulty of speech.
barysphere: The heavy interior portion of the earth, within thelithosphere.
basalt: A rock of igneous origin, consisting of augite and triclinicfeldspar, with grains of magnetic or titanic iron, and also bottle-green particles of olivine frequently disseminated.
basaltic: Pertaining to basalt; formed of, or containing, basalt; asbasaltic lava.
basihyal: Noting two small bones, forming the body of the inverted hyoidarch.
basihyoid: The central tongue bone.
basilic: Basilica.
basin: An isolated or circumscribed formation, particularly where thestrata dip inward, on all sides, toward a center; -- especiallyapplied to the coal formations, called coal basins or coal fields.
basket: The bell or vase of the Corinthian capital. [Improperly soused.] Gwilt.
basset: A game at cards, resembling the modern faro, said to have beeninvented at Venice.Some dress, some dance, some play, not to forget Your piquet parties,and your dear basset. Rowe.
bathos: A ludicrous descent from the elevated to the low, in writing orspeech; anticlimax.
battailous: Arrayed for battle; fit or eager for battle; warlike. [Obs.]"In battailous aspect." Milton.
battalion: A regiment, or two or more companies of a regiment, esp. whenassembled for drill or battle.
battel: A single combat; as, trial by battel. See Wager of battel,under Wager.
batterer: One who, or that which, batters.
battlemented: Having battlements.A battlemented portal. Sir W. Scott.
battologize: To keep repeating needlessly; to iterate. Sir T. Herbert.
baubee: Same as Bawbee.
beaconless: Having no beacon.
beading: Molding in imitation of beads.
beadleship: The state of being, or the personality of, a beadle. A. Wood.
beamful: Beamy; radiant.
beamily: In a beaming manner.
beatitude: Beatification. Milman.
beaufet: A niche, cupboard, or sideboard for plate, china, glass, etc.;a buffet.A beaufet . . . filled with gold and silver vessels. Prescott.
bebeeru: A tropical South American tree (Nectandra Rodioi), the bark ofwhich yields the alkaloid bebeerine, and the wood of which is knownas green heart.
beccafico: A small bird. (Silvia hortensis), which is highly prized by theItalians for the delicacy of its flesh in the autumn, when it has fedon figs, grapes, etc.
become: To suit or be suitable to; to be congruous with; to befit; toaccord with, in character or circumstances; to be worthy of, orproper for; to cause to appear well; -- said of persons and things.It becomes me so to speak of so excellent a poet. Dryden.I have known persons so anxious to have their dress become them, asto convert it, at length, into their proper self, and thus actuallyto become the dress. Coleridge.
becomingly: In a becoming manner.
bedaff: To make a daff or fool of. [Obs.] Chaucer.
bedaub: To daub over; to besmear or soil with anything thick and dirty.Bedaub foul designs with a fair varnish. Barrow.
bedewy: Moist with dew; dewy. [Obs.]Night with her bedewy wings. A. Brewer.
bedizenment: That which bedizens; the act of dressing, or the state of beingdressed, tawdrily.
bedlam: Belonging to, or fit for, a madhouse. "The bedlam, brainsickduchess." Shak.
bedraggle: To draggle; to soil, as garments which, in walking, aresuffered to drag in dust, mud, etc. Swift.
bedribble: To dribble upon.
bedrug: To drug abundantly or excessively.
bedside: The side of a bed.
bedsite: A recess in a room for a bed.Of the three bedrooms, two have fireplaces, and all are of fair size,with windows and bedsite well placed. Quart. Rev.
bedust: To sprinkle, soil, or cover with dust. Sherwood.
beebread: A brown, bitter substance found in some of the cells ofhoneycomb. It is made chiefly from the pollen of flowers, which iscollected by bees as food for their young.
beechen: Consisting, or made, of the wood or bark of the beech;belonging to the beech. "Plain beechen vessels." Dryden.
beefeater: An African bird of the genus Buphaga, which feeds on the larv¯f botflies hatched under the skin of oxen, antelopes, etc. Twospecies are known.
beefsteak: A steak of beef; a slice of beef broiled or suitable forbroiling.
beefwood: An Australian tree (Casuarina), and its red wood, used forcabinetwork; also, the trees Stenocarpus salignus of New South Wales,and Banksia compar of Queensland.
beehouse: A house for bees; an apiary.
beflower: To besprinkle or scatter over with, or as with, flowers.Hobbes.
bega: See Bigha.
beggable: Capable of being begged.
beggary: Beggarly. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
begild: To gild. B. Jonson.
begot: imp. & p. p. of Beget.
begum: In the East Indies, a princess or lady of high rank. Malcom.
behappen: To happen to. [Obs.]
beheld: imp. & p. p. of Behold.
behemoth: An animal, probably the hippopotamus, described in Job xl. 15-24.
behest: To vow. [Obs.] Paston.
beknow: To confess; to acknowledge. [Obs.] Chaucer.
believer: One who gives credit to the truth of the Scriptures, as arevelation from God; a Christian; -- in a more restricted sense, onewho receives Christ as his Savior, and accepts the way of salvationunfolded in the gospel.Thou didst open the Kingdom of Heaven to all believers. Book of Com.Prayer.
bell: That part of the capital of a column included between theabacus and neck molding; also used for the naked core of nearlycylindrical shape, assumed to exist within the leafage of a capital.
bellman: A man who rings a bell, especially to give notice of anythingin the streets. Formerly, also, a night watchman who called thehours. Milton.
bellyful: As much as satisfies the appetite. Hence
bemask: To mask; to conceal.
beneficially: In a beneficial or advantageous manner; profitably; helpfully.
benefit: Natural advantaged; endowments; accomplishments. [R.] "Thebenefits of your own country." Shak. Benefit of clergy. (Law) Seeunder Clergy.
benison: Blessing; beatitude; benediction. Shak.More precious than the benison of friends. Talfourd.
benthamism: That phase of the doctrine of utilitarianism taught by JeremyBentham; the doctrine that the morality of actions is estimated anddetermined by their utility; also, the theory that the sensibility topleasure and the recoil from pain are the only motives whichinfluence human desires and actions, and that these are thesufficient explanation of ethical and jural conceptions.
benthamite: One who believes in Benthamism.
benumbment: Act of benumbing, or state of being benumbed; torpor. Kirby.
bepommel: To pommel; to beat, as with a stick; figuratively, to assail orcriticise in conversation, or in writing. Thackeray.
bepraise: To praise greatly or extravagantly. Goldsmith.
bernacle: See Barnacle.
bernardine: Of or pertaining to St. Bernard of Clairvaux, or to theCistercian monks.-- n.
berseem: An Egyptian clover (Trifolium alexandrinum) extensivelycultivated as a forage plant and soil-renewing crop in the alkalinesoils of the Nile valley, and now introduced into the southwesternUnited States. It is more succulent than other clovers or thanalfalfa. Called also Egyptian clover.
berstle: See Bristle. [Obs.] Chaucer.
berthierite: A double sulphide of antimony and iron, of a dark steel-graycolor.
bescratch: To tear with the nails; to cover with scratches.
beseech: Solicitation; supplication. [Obs. or Poetic] Shak.
besides: Over and above; separate or distinct from; in addition to;other than; else than. See Beside, prep., 3, and Syn. under Beside.Besides your cheer, you shall have sport. Shak.
besiegement: The act of besieging, or the state of being besieged. Golding.
besmear: To smear with any viscous, glutinous matter; to bedaub; tosoil.Besmeared with precious balm. Spenser.
besot: To make sottish; to make dull or stupid; to stupefy; toinfatuate.Fools besotted with their crimes. Hudibras.
bespeak: To speak. [Obs.] Milton.
bespew: To soil or daub with spew; to vomit on.
bestiary: A treatise on beasts; esp., one of the moralizing orallegorical beast tales written in the Middle Ages.
beta: The second letter of the Greek alphabet, B, b. See B, and cf.etymology of Alphabet. Beta (B, b) is used variously for classifying,as:(a) (Astron.) To designate some bright star, usually the secondbrightest, of a constellation, as, b Aurigæ.(b) (Chem.) To distinguish one of two or more isomers; also, toindicate the position of substituting atoms or groups in certaincompounds; as, b-naphthol. With acids, it commonly indicates that thesubstituent is in union with the carbon atom next to that to whichthe carboxyl group is attached.
beurre: A beurré (or buttery) pear, one with the meas, Beurré d'Anjou;Beurré Clairgeau.
bever: A light repast between meals; a lunch. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.
bewailable: Such as may, or ought to, be bewailed; lamentable.
bewash: To drench or souse with water. "Let the maids bewash the men."Herrick.
bewig: To cover (the head) with a wig. Hawthorne.
bewilder: To lead into perplexity or confusion, as for want of a plainpath; to perplex with mazes; or in general, to perplex or confusegreatly.Lost and bewildered in the fruitless search. Addison.
bewildering: Causing bewilderment or great perplexity; as, bewilderingdifficulties.-- Be*wil"der*ing*ly, adv.
bewitching: Having power to bewitch or fascinate; enchanting; captivating;charming.-- Be*witch"ing*ly, adv.-- Be*witch"ing*ness, n.
bezonian: A low fellow or scoundrel; a beggar.Great men oft die by vile bezonians. Shak.
bibirine: See Bebeerine.
biblicist: One skilled in the knowledge of the Bible; a demonstrator ofreligious truth by the Scriptures.
bibliomancy: A kind of divination, performed by selecting passages ofScripture at hazard, and drawing from them indications concerningfuture events.
bibliopegistic: Pertaining to the art of binding books. [R.] Dibdin.
bibliophobia: A dread of books. [R.]
bibliothecary: A librarian. [Obs.] Evelin.
bicipitous: Having two heads; bicipital. "Bicipitous serpents." Sir T.Browne.
bicolligate: Having the anterior toes connected by a basal web.
bicorporal: Having two bodies.
bicostate: Having two principal ribs running longitudinally, as a leaf.
bicrenate: Twice crenated, as in the case of leaves whose crenatures arethemselves crenate.
bicyclism: The art of riding a bicycle.
bidigitate: Having two fingers or fingerlike projections.
bifold: Twofold; double; of two kinds, degrees, etc. Shak.
biga: A two-horse chariot.
bigam: A bigamist. [Obs.]
bigamy: The offense of marrying one person when already legally marriedto another. Wharton.
biggin: A child's cap; a hood, or something worn on the head.An old woman's biggin for a nightcap. Massinger.
bigotedly: In the manner of a bigot.
bijou: A trinket; a jewel; -- a word applied to anything small and ofelegant workmanship.
bijoutry: Small articles of virtu, as jewelry, trinkets, etc.
bilalo: A two-masted passenger boat or small vessel, used in the bay ofManila.
bilinear: Of, pertaining to, or included by, two lines; as, bilinearcoördinates.
biliteral: Consisting of two letters; as, a biliteral root of a Sanskritverb. Sir W. Jones.-- n.
bimestrial: Continuing two months. [R.]
bimetallism: The legalized use of two metals (as gold and silver) in thecurrency of a country, at a fixed relative value; -- in opposition tomonometallism.
binal: Twofold; double. [R.] "Binal revenge, all this." Ford.
bind: Indurated clay, when much mixed with the oxide of iron. Kirwan.
binominal: Of or pertaining to two names; binomial.
binominous: Binominal. [Obs.]
biocellate: Having two ocelli (eyelike spots); -- said of a wing, etc.
bioplastic: Bioplasmic.
biotaxy: The classification of living organisms according to theirstructural character; taxonomy.
bipennis: An ax with an edge or blade on each side of the handle.
bipunctate: Having two punctures, or spots.
bipunctual: Having two points.
birchen: Of or relating to birch.He passed where Newark's stately tower Looks out from Yarrow'sbirchen bower. Sir W. Scott.
birdlime: An extremely adhesive viscid substance, usually made of themiddle bark of the holly, by boiling, fermenting, and cleansing it.When a twig is smeared with this substance it will hold small birdswhich may light upon it. Hence
birthplace: The town, city, or country, where a person is born; place oforigin or birth, in its more general sense. "The birthplace ofvalor." Burns.
birthwort: A genus of herbs and shrubs (Aristolochia), reputed to havemedicinal properties.
biseptate: With two partitions or septa. Gray.
bishoply: Bishoplike; episcopal. [Obs.]
bismuthous: Of, or containing, bismuth, when this element has its lowervalence.
bitheism: Belief in the existence of two gods; dualism.
bitingly: In a biting manner.
bitless: Not having a bit or bridle.
bitstock: A stock or handle for holding and rotating a bit; a brace.
bitterbump: the butterbump or bittern.
bituminize: To prepare, treat, impregnate, or coat with bitumen.
bivalent: Equivalent in combining or displacing power to two atoms ofhydrogen; dyad.
bivalvular: Having two valves.
blackcock: The male of the European black grouse (Tetrao tetrix, Linn.); -- so called by sportsmen. The female is called gray hen. See Heathgrouse.
blacktail: A fish; the ruff or pope.
blady: Consisting of blades. [R.] "Blady grass." Drayton.
blaeberry: The bilberry. [North of Eng. & Scot.]
blain: A bladder growing on the root of the tongue of a horse, againstthe windpipe, and stopping the breath.
blamable: Deserving of censure; faulty; culpable; reprehensible;censurable; blameworthy.-- Blam"a*ble*ness, n.-- Blam"a*bly (, adv.
blamer: One who blames. Wyclif.
blanquette: A white fricassee.
blarney: Smooth, wheedling talk; flattery. [Colloq.] Blarney stone, astone in Blarney castle, Ireland, said to make those who kiss itproficient in the use of blarney.
blatancy: Blatant quality.
blatter: To prate; to babble; to rail; to make a senseless noise; topatter. [Archaic] "The rain blattered." Jeffrey.They procured . . . preachers to blatter against me, . . . so thatthey had place and time to belie me shamefully. Latimer.
blazer: One who spreads reports or blazes matters abroad. "Blazers ofcrime." Spenser.
blink: The dazzling whiteness about the horizon caused by thereflection of light from fields of ice at sea; ice blink.
blissless: Destitute of bliss. Sir P. Sidney.
bloom: A popular term for a bright-hued variety of some minerals; as,the rose-red cobalt bloom.
bloomary: See Bloomery.
bloomingness: A blooming condition.
blossomy: Full of blossoms; flowery.
blubbering: The act of weeping noisily.He spake well save that his blubbering interrupted him. Winthrop.
blueprint: See under Print.
bluey: ,a.Bluish. Southey.
bluff: To deter (an opponent) from taking the risk of betting on hishand of cards, as the bluffer does by betting heavily on his own handalthough it may be of less value. [U. S.]
bluffer: One who bluffs.
bluish: Somewhat blue; as, bluish veins. "Bluish mists." Dryden.-- Blu"ish*ly, adv.-- Blu"ish*ness, n.
blundering: Characterized by blunders.
blurry: Full of blurs; blurred.
bluster: To utter, or do, with noisy violence; to force by blustering;to bully.He bloweth and blustereth out . . . his abominable blasphemy. Sir T.More.As if therewith he meant to bluster all princes into a perfectobedience to his commands. Fuller.
blustrous: Blusterous. Shak.
boa: A genus of large American serpents, including the boaconstrictor, the emperor boa of Mexico (B. imperator), and thechevalier boa of Peru (B. eques).
boanerges: Any declamatory and vociferous preacher or orator.
bobby: A nickname for a policeman; -- from Sir Robert Peel, whoremodeled the police force. See Peeler. [Slang, Eng.] Dickens.
boes: Behoves or behooves. [Obs.] Chaucer.
bogue: To fall off from the wind; to edge away to leeward; -- saidonly of inferior craft.
boiled: Dressed or cooked by boiling; subjected to the action of aboiling liquid; as, boiled meat; a boiled dinner; boiled clothes.
boistous: Rough or rude; coarse; strong; violent; boisterous; noisy.[Obs.] Chaucer.-- Bois"tous*ly, adv.-- Bois"tous*ness, n. [Obs.] Chaucer.
bolden: To make bold; to encourage; to embolden.Ready speakers, being boldened with their present abilities to saymore, . . . use less help of diligence and study. Ascham.
boldly: In a bold manner.
bole: The trunk or stem of a tree, or that which is like it.Enormous elm-tree boles did stoop and lean. Tennyson.
boll: To form a boll or seed vessel; to go to seed.The barley was in the ear, and the flax was bolled. Ex. ix. 31.
bolt: To refuse to support, as a nomination made by a party to whichone has belonged or by a caucus in which one has taken part.
bombasine: Same as Bombazine.
bombast: High-sounding; inflated; big without meaning; magniloquent;bombastic.[He] evades them with a bombast circumstance,Horribly stuffed with epithets of war. Shak.Nor a tall metaphor in bombast way. Cowley.
bombshell: A bomb. See Bomb, n.
bonapartist: One attached to the policy or family of Bonaparte, or of theBonapartes.
bond: The state of being bound; imprisonment; captivity, restraint."This man doeth nothing worthy of death or of bonds." Acts xxvi.
bondholder: A person who holds the bonds of a public or private corporationfor the payment of money at a certain time.
bonedog: The spiny dogfish.
booby: Having the characteristics of a booby; stupid.
bookkeeper: One who keeps accounts; one who has the charge of keeping thebooks and accounts in an office.
bookseller: One who sells books.
bookshelf: A shelf to hold books.
bookstall: A stall or stand where books are sold.
booky: Bookish.
boorish: Like a boor; clownish; uncultured; unmannerly.-- Boor"ish*ly, adv.-- Boor"ish*ness, n.Which is in truth a gross and boorish opinion. Milton.
boost: To lift or push from behind (one who is endeavoring to climb);to push up; hence, to assist in overcoming obstacles, or in makingadvancement. [Colloq. U. S.]
bootmaker: One who makes boots.-- Boot"mak`ing, n.
boottree: An instrument to stretch and widen the leg of a boot,consisting of two pieces, together shaped like a leg, between which,when put into the boot, a wedge is driven.The pretty boots trimly stretched on boottrees. Thackeray.
borecole: A brassicaceous plant of many varieties, cultivated for itsleaves, which are not formed into a compact head like the cabbage,but are loose, and are generally curled or wrinkled; kale.
bosjesman: ; pl. Bosjesmans. [D. boschjesman.]
bosquet: See Bosket.
bossism: The rule or practices of bosses, esp. political bosses. [Slang,U. S.]
bots: The larvæ of several species of botfly, especially those larv·hich infest the stomach, throat, or intestines of the horse, and aresupposed to be the cause of various ailments. [Written also botts.]
bouche: Same as Bush, a lining.
boun: Ready; prepared; destined; tending. [Obs.] Chaucer.
bour: A chamber or a cottage. [Obs.] Chaucer.
bourd: A jest. [Obs.] Chaucer.
boustrophedonic: Relating to the boustrophedon mode of writing.
bow: An inclination of the head, or a bending of the body, in tokenof reverence, respect, civility, or submission; an obeisance; as, abow of deep humility.
bowbent: Bent, like a bow. Milton.
bowel: Hence, figuratively
bowleg: A crooked leg. Jer. Taylor.
bowstring: To strangle with a bowstring.
boxberry: The wintergreern. (Gaultheria procumbens). [Local, U.S.]
boycotter: A participant in boycotting.
brachium: The upper arm; the segment of the fore limb between theshoulder and the elbow.
brachydome: A dome parallel to the shorter lateral axis. See Dome.
brachylogy: Conciseness of expression; brevity.
brachypinacoid: A plane of an orthorhombic crystal which is parallel both tothe vertical axis and to the shorter lateral (brachydiagonal) axis.
brackishness: The quality or state of being brackish, or somewhat salt.
bractless: Destitute of bracts.
bragget: A liquor made of ale and honey fermented, with spices, etc.[Obs.] B. Jonson.
braggingly: Boastingly.
bragless: Without bragging. [R.] Shak.
brainless: Without understanding; silly; thougthless; witless.-- Brain"less*ness, n.
brainsickly: In a brainsick manner.
braize: See Braise.
brambly: Pertaining to, resembling, or full of, brambles. "In bramblywildernesses." Tennyson.
branchia: A gill; a respiratory organ for breathing the air contained inwater, such as many aquatic and semiaquatic animals have.
branchial: Of or pertaining to branchiæ or gills. Branchial arches, thebony or cartilaginous arches which support the gills on each side ofthe throat of fishes and amphibians. See Illustration in Appendix.-- Branchial clefts, the openings between the branchial archesthrough which water passes.
branchiostege: The branchiostegal membrane. See Illustration in Appendix.
branchless: Destitude of branches or shoots; without any valuable product;barren; naked.
brandywine: Brandy. [Obs.] Wiseman.
branular: Relating to the brain; cerebral. I. Taylor.
brash: Hasty in temper; impetuous. Grose.
brassiness: The state, conditions, or quality of being brassy. [Colloq.]
brawniness: The quality or state of being brawny.
breadthless: Without breadth.
brestsummer: See Breastsummer.
bretwalda: The official title applied to that one of the Anglo-Saxonchieftains who was chosen by the other chiefs to lead them in theirwarfare against the British tribes. Brande & C.
bretzel: See Pretzel.
bribeless: Incapable of being bribed; free from bribes.From thence to heaven's bribeless hall. Sir W. Raleigh.
bridesmaid: A female friend who attends on a bride at her wedding.
bridgeboard: A notched board to which the treads and risers of the steps ofwooden stairs are fastened.
bridgehead: A fortification commanding the extremity of a bridge nearestthe enemy, to insure the preservation and usefulness of the bridge,and prevent the enemy from crossing; a tête-de-pont.
bridgeless: Having no bridge; not bridged.
bridgetree: The beam which supports the spindle socket of the runner in agrinding mill. Knight.
brigandine: A coast of armor for the body, consisting of scales or plates,sometimes overlapping each other, generally of metal, and sewed tolinen or other material. It was worn in the Middle Ages. [Writtenalso brigantine.] Jer. xlvi. 4.Then put on all thy gorgeous arms, thy helmet, And brigandine ofbrass. Milton.
brigue: A cabal, intrigue, faction, contention, strife, or quarrel.[Obs.] Chesterfield.
brilliance: Brilliancy. Tennyson.
brilliant: The small size of type used in England printing.
brittlely: In a brittle manner. Sherwood.
broadly: In a broad manner.
brobdingnagian: Colossal' of extraordinary height; gigantic.-- n.
broker: An agent employed to effect bargains and contracts, as amiddleman or negotiator, between other persons, for a compensationcommonly called brokerage. He takes no possession, as broker, of thesubject matter of the negotiation. He generally contracts in thenames of those who employ him, and not in his own. Story.
broma: Aliment; food. Dunglison.
bromide: A compound of bromine with a positive radical.
bromlife: A carbonate of baryta and lime, intermediate between witheriteand strontianite; -- called also alstonite.
bromogelatin: Designating or pertaining to, a process of preparing dry plateswith an emulsion of bromides and silver nitrate in gelatin.
bronchia: The bronchial tubes which arise from the branching of thetrachea, esp. the subdivision of the bronchi. Dunglison.
brontosaurus: A genus of American jurassic dinosaurs. A length of sixty feetis believed to have been attained by these reptiles.
bronzy: Like bronze.
bruit: An abnormal sound of several kinds, heard on auscultation.
brunette: A girl or woman with a somewhat brown or dark complexion.-- a.
brunion: A nectarine.
brussels: A city of Belgium, giving its name to a kind of carpet, a kindof lace, etc. Brussels carpet, a kind of carpet made of worsted yarnfixed in a foundation web of strong linen thread. The worsted, whichalone shows on the upper surface in drawn up in loops to form thepattern.-- Brussels ground, a name given to the handmade ground of realBrussels lace. It is very costly because of the extreme fineness ofthe threads.-- Brussels lace, an expensive kind of lace of several varieties,originally made in Brussels; as, Brussels point, Brussels ground,Brussels wire ground.-- Brussels net, an imitation of Brussels ground, made by machinery.-- Brussels point. See Point lace.-- Brussels sprouts (Bot.), a plant of the Cabbage family, whichproduces, in the axils of the upright stem, numerous small greenheads, or "sprouts," each a cabbage in miniature, of one or twoinches in diameter; the thousand-headed cabbage.-- Brussels wire ground, a ground for lace, made of silk, withmeshes partly straight and partly arched.
brut: To browse. [Obs.] Evelyn.
bryology: That part of botany which relates to mosses.
bubale: A large antelope (Alcelaphus bubalis) of Egypt and the Desertof Sahara, supposed by some to be the fallow deer of the Bible.
buccinator: A muscle of the cheek; -- so called from its use in blowingwind instruments.
buccinoid: Resembling the genus Buccinum, or pertaining to the Buccinidæ,a family of marine univalve shells. See Whelk, and Prosobranchiata.
buckish: Dandified; foppish.
budgeness: Sternness; severity. [Obs.]A Sara for goodness, a great Bellona for budgeness. Stanyhurst.
buffoonery: The arts and practices of a buffoon, as low jests, ridiculouspranks, vulgar tricks and postures.Nor that it will ever constitute a wit to conclude a tart piece ofbuffoonery with a "What makes you blush" Spectator.
buffy: Resembling, or characterized by, buff. Buffy coat, thecoagulated plasma of blood when the red corpuscles have so settledout that the coagulum appears nearly colorless. This is common indiseased conditions where the corpuscles run together more rapidlyand in denser masses than usual. Huxley.
bugbane: A perennial white-flowered herb of the order Ranunculaceæ andgenus Cimiciguga; bugwort. There are several species.
bugbear: Same as Bugaboo.-- a.
buggery: Unnatural sexual intercourse; sodomy.
buhrstone: A cellular, flinty rock, used for mill stones. [Written alsoburrstone.]
bukshish: See Backsheesh.
bulky: Of great bulk or dimensions; of great size; large; thick;massive; as, bulky volumes.A bulky digest of the revenue laws. Hawthorne.
bullantic: Pertaining to, or used in, papal bulls. Fry. Bullantic letters,Gothic letters used in papal bulls.
bullfinch: A bird of the genus Pyrrhula and other related genera,especially the P. vulgaris or rubicilla, a bird of Europe allied tothe grosbeak, having the breast, cheeks, and neck, red.
bullition: The action of boiling; boiling. [Obs.] See Ebullition. Bacon.
bullon: A West Indian fish (Scarus Croicensis).
bulse: A purse or bag in which to carry or measure diamonds, etc.[India] Macaulay.
bultong: Biltong.
bum: The buttock. [Low] Shak.
bumbast: See Bombast. [Obs.]
bunch: A small isolated mass of ore, as distinguished from acontinuous vein. Page.
bunchberry: The dwarf cornel (Cornus Canadensis), which bears a densecluster of bright red, edible berries.
bungarum: A venomous snake of India, of the genus Bungarus, allied to thecobras, but without a hood.
bungle: To act or work in a clumsy, awkward manner.
bunko: A kind of swindling game or scheme, by means of cards or by asham lottery. [Written also bunco.] Bunko steerer, a person employedas a decoy in bunko. [Slang, U.S.]
bunter: A woman who picks up rags in the streets; hence, a low, vulgarwoman. [Cant]Her . . . daughters, like bunters in stuff gowns. Goldsmith.
burghbote: A contribution toward the building or repairing of castles orwalls for the defense of a city or town.
burghmote: A court or meeting of a burgh or borough; a borough court heldthree times yearly.
burglarer: A burglar. [Obs.]
burglarious: Pertaining to burglary; constituting the crime of burglary.To come down a chimney is held a burglarious entry. Blackstone.
burh: See Burg. [Obs.]
burinist: One who works with the burin. For. Quart. Rev.
burkism: The practice of killing persons for the purpose of sellingtheir bodies for dissection.
burnt: Consumed with, or as with, fire; scorched or dried, as withfire or heat; baked or hardened in the fire or the sun. Burnt ear, ablack, powdery fungus which destroys grain. See Smut.-- Burnt offering, something offered and burnt on an altar, as anatonement for sin; a sacrifice. The offerings of the Jews were aclean animal, as an ox, a calf, a goat, or a sheep; or some vegetablesubstance, as bread, or ears of wheat or barley. Called also burntsacrifice. [2 Sam. xxiv. 22.]
burrstone: See Buhrstone.
bursarship: The office of a bursar.
burstwort: A plant (Herniaria glabra) supposed to be valuable for the cureof hernia or rupture.
buscon: One who searches for ores; a prospector. [U.S.]
bushhammer: A hammer with a head formed of a bundle of square bars, withpyramidal points, arranged in rows, or a solid head with a face cutinto a number of rows of such points; -- used for dressing stone.
bushido: The unwritten code of moral principles regulating the actionsof the Japanese knighthood, or Samurai; the chivalry of Japan.
butler: An officer in a king's or a nobleman's household, whoseprincipal business it is to take charge of the liquors, plate, etc.;the head servant in a large house.The butler and the baker of the king of Egypt. Gen. xl. 5.Your wine locked up, your butler strolled abroad. Pope.
butterbird: The rice bunting or bobolink; -- so called in the island ofJamaica.
butterine: A substance prepared from animal fat with some otheringredients intermixed, as an imitation of butter.The manufacturers ship large quantities of oleomargarine to England,Holland, and other countries, to be manufactured into butter, whichis sold as butterine or suine. Johnson's Cyc.
button: To be fastened by a button or buttons; as, the coat will notbutton.
butyric: Pertaining to, or derived from, butter. Butyric acid,C3H7.CO2H, an acid found in butter; an oily, limpid fluid, having thesmell of rancid butter, and an acrid taste, with a sweetishaftertaste, like that of ether. There are two metameric butyricacids, called in distinction the normal- and iso-butyric acid. Thenormal butyric acid is the one common in rancid butter.
buxine: An alkaloid obtained from the Buxus sempervirens, or common boxtree. It is identical with bebeerine; -- called also buxina.
buzzardet: A hawk resembling the buzzard, but with legs relatively longer.
byplay: Action carried on aside, and commonly in dumb show, while themain action proceeds.
cabal: To unite in a small party to promote private views andinterests by intrigue; to intrigue; to plot.Caballing still against it with the great. Dryden.
cabas: A flat basket or frail for figs, etc.; Hence, a lady's flatworkbasket, reticule, or hand bag; -- often written caba. C. Bronté.
cabman: The driver of a cab.
caboched: Showing the full face, but nothing of the neck; -- said of thehead of a beast in armorial bearing. [Written also caboshed.]
cachepot: An ornamental casing for a flowerpot, of porcelain, metal,paper, etc.
cachunde: A pastil or troche, composed of various aromatic and otheringredients, highly celebrated in India as an antidote, and as astomachic and antispasmodic.
cacology: Bad speaking; bad choice or use of words. Buchanan.
cadenza: A parenthetic flourish or flight of ornament in the course of apiece, commonly just before the final cadence.
cadge: A circular frame on which cadgers carry hawks for sale.
cadger: One who carries hawks on a cadge.
caducity: Tendency to fall; the feebleness of old age; senility. [R.][A] jumble of youth and caducity. Chesterfield.
caesar: A Roman emperor, as being the successor of Augustus Cæsar.Hence, a kaiser, or emperor of Germany, or any emperor or powerfulruler. See Kaiser, Kesar.Malborough anticipated the day when he would be servilely flatteredand courted by Cæsar on one side and by Louis the Great on the other.Macaulay.
caesural: Of or pertaining to a cæsura. Cæsural pause, a pause made at acæsura.
cafe: A coffeehouse; a restaurant; also, a room in a hotel orrestaurant where coffee and liquors are served.
caffeic: Pertaining to, or obtained from, coffee. Caffeic acid, an acidobtained from coffee tannin, as a yellow crystalline substance,C9H8O4.
caffetannic: Pertaining to, or derived from, the tannin of coffee.Caffetannic acid, a variety of tannin obtained from coffee berries,regarded as a glucoside.
caffre: See Kaffir.
caged: Confined in, or as in, a cage; like a cage or prison. "Thecaged cloister." Shak.
cageling: A bird confined in a cage; esp. a young bird. [Poetic]Tennyson.
cagit: A king of parrot, of a beautiful green color, found in thePhilippine Islands.
caiman: See Cayman.
cajuputene: A colorlees or greenish oil extracted from cajuput.
calaite: A mineral. See Turquoise.
calambour: A species of agalloch, or aloes wood, of a dusky or mottledcolor, of a light, friable texture, and less fragrant than calambac;-- used by cabinetmakers.
calamint: A genus of perennial plants (Calamintha) of the Mint family,esp. the C. Nepela and C. Acinos, which are called also basil thyme.
calando: (Mus.) Gradually diminishing in rapidity and loudness.
calaverite: A bronze-yellow massive mineral with metallic luster; atelluride of gold; -- first found in Calaveras County California.
calcification: The process of chenge into a stony or calcareous substance bythe deposition of lime salt; -- normally, as in the formation of boneand teeth; abnormally, as in calcareous degeneration of tissue.
calciform: In the form of chalk or lime.
calcigenous: Tending to form, or to become, a calx or earthlike substance onbeing oxidized or burnt; as magnesium, calcium. etc.
calculative: Of or pertaining to calculation; involving calculation.Long habits of calculative dealings. Burke.
calendar: A tabular statement of the dates of feasts, offices, saints'days, etc., esp. of those which are liable to change yearly accordingto the varying date of Easter.
calid: Hot; burning; ardent. [Obs.] Bailey.
californian: Of or pertaining to California.-- n.
calipash: A part of a turtle which is next to the upper shell. Itcontains a fatty and gelatinous substance of a dull greenish tinge,much esteemed as a delicacy in preparations of turtle.
callithump: A somewhat riotous parade, accompanied with the blowing of tinhorus, and other discordant noises; also, a burlesque serenade; acharivari. [U. S.]
calorimetry: Measurement of the quantities of heat in bodies.
calorimotor: A voltaic battery, having a large surface of plate, andproducing powerful heating effects.
calotype: A method of taking photographic pictures, on paper sensitizedwith iodide of silver; -- also called Talbotype, from the inventor,Mr. Fox. Talbot.
calumet: A kind of pipe, used by the North American Indians for smokingtobacco. The bowl is usually made of soft red stone, and the tube isa long reed often ornamented with feathers.Smoked the calumet, the Peace pipe, As a signal to the nations.Lowgfellow.
calumniator: One who calumniates.
calvinize: To convert to Calvinism.
calyptriform: Having the form a calyptra, or extinguisher.
camber: An upward convexity of a deck or other surface; as, she has ahigh camber (said of a vessel having an unusual convexity of deck).
camboose: See Caboose.
cambrian: Of or pertaining to Cambria or Wales.
camellia: An Asiatic genus of small shrubs, often with shining leaves andshowy flowers. Camelia Japonica is much cultivated for ornament, andC. Sassanqua and C. Oleifera are grown in China for the oil which ispressed from their seeds. The tea plant is now referred to this genusunder the name of Camellia Thea.
camelshair: Of camel's hair. Camel's-hair pencil, a small brush used bypainters in water colors, made of camel's hair or similar materials.-- Camel's-hair shawl. A name often given to a cashmere shawl. SeeCashmere shawl under Cashmere.
camerlingo: The papal chamberlain; the cardinal who presides over thepope's household. He has at times possessed great power. [Writtenalso camerlengo and camarlengo.]
camlet: A woven fabric originally made of camel's hair, now chiefly ofgoat's hair and silk, or of wool and cotton. [Sometimes writtencamelot and camblet.]
camwood: See Barwood.
canal: A tube or duct; as, the alimentary canal; the semicircularcanals of the ear. Canal boat, a boat for use on a canal; esp. one ofpeculiar shape, carrying freight, and drawn by horses walking on thetowpath beside the canal. Canal lock. See Lock.
canaliculus: A minute canal.
cancan: A rollicking French dance, accompanied by indecorous orextravagant postures and gestures.
cancel: To suppress or omit; to strike out, as matter in type. Canceledfigures (Print), figures cast with a line across the face., as foruse in arithmetics.
cancerite: Like a cancer; having the qualities or virulence of a cancer;affected with cancer. "Cancerous vices." G. Eliot.-- Can"cer*ous*ly, adv.-- Can"cer*ous*ness, n.
candicant: Growing white. [Obs.]
candy: A more or less solid article of confectionery made by boilingsugar or molasses to the desired consistency, and than crystallizing,molding, or working in the required shape. It is often flavored orcolored, and sometimes contains fruit, nuts, etc.
caninal: See Canine, a.
cannabine: Pertaining to hemp; hempen. [R.]
cannery: A place where the business of canning fruit, meat, etc., iscarried on. [U. S.]
canniness: Caution; crafty management. [N. of Eng. & Scot.]
canopus: A star of the first magnitude in the southern constellationArgo.
canopy: To cover with, or as with, a canopy. "A bank with ivycanopied." Milton.
cantharidal: Of or pertaining to cantharides or made of cantharides; as,cantharidal plaster.
canthoplasty: The operation of forming a new canthus, when one has beendestroyed by injury or disease.
canticle: The Song of Songs or Song of Solomon, one of the books of theOld Testament.
cantlet: A piece; a fragment; a corner. Dryden.
caoutchoucin: See Caoutchin.
capacitate: To render capable; to enable; to qualify.By thih instruction we may be capaciated to observe those errors.Dryden.
caper: To leap or jump about in a sprightly manner; to cut capers; toskip; to spring; to prance; to dance.He capers, he dances, he has eyes of youth. Shak.
caperberry: See Capper, a plant, 2.
capitalness: The quality of being capital; preeminence. [R.]
capitula: See Capitulum.
capitulum: A knobike protuberance of any part, esp. at the end of a boneor cartilage.
capnomancy: Divination by means of the ascent or motion of smoke.
capote: A long cloak or overcoat, especially one with a hood.
capra: A genus of ruminants, including the common goat.
capstan: A vertical cleated drum or cylinder, revolving on an uprightspindle, and surmounted by a drumhead with sockets for bars orlevers. It is much used, especially on shipboard, for moving orraising heavy weights or exerting great power by traction upon a ropeor cable, passing around the drum. It is operated either by steampower or by a number of men walking around the capstan, each pushingon the end of a lever fixed in its socket. [Sometimes spelt Capstern,but improperly.] Capstan bar, one of the long bars or levers by whichthe capstan is worked; a handspike..-- To pawl the capstan, to drop the pawls so that they will catch inthe notches of the pawl ring, and prevent the capstan from turningback.-- To rig the capstan, to prepare the for use, by putting the barsin the sockets.-- To surge the capstan, to slack the tension of the rope or cablewound around it.
caption: That part of a legal instrument, as a commission, indictment,etc., which shows where, when, and by what authority, it taken,found, or executed. Bouvier. Wharton.
captivating: Having power to captivate or cham; fascinating; as, captivatingsmiles.-- Cap"tiva`ting*ly, adv.
carabine: A carbine.
caracul: Var. of Karakul, a kind of fur.
carapace: The thick shell or sheild which cover the back of the tortoise,or turtle, the crab, and other crustaceous animals.
caravel: A name given to several kinds of vessels.(a) The caravel of the 16th century was a small vessel with broadbows, high, narrow poop, four masts, and lateen sails. Columbuscommanded three caravels on his great voyage.(b) A Portuguese vessel of 100 or 150 tons burden.(c) A small fishing boat used on the French coast.(d) A Turkish man-of-war.
carbamide: The technical name for urea.
carbonic: Of, pertaining to, or obtained from, carbon; as, carbonicoxide. Carbonic acid (Chem.), an acid H2CO3, not existing separately,which, combined with positive or basic atoms or radicals, formscarbonates. On common language the term is very generally applied toa compound of carbon and oxygen, CO2, more correctly called carbondioxide. It is a colorless, heavy, irrespirable gas, extinguishingflame, and when breathed destroys life. It can be reduced to a liquidand solid form by intense pressure. It is produced in thefermentation of liquors, and by the combustion and decomposition oforganic substances, or other substances containing carbon. It isformed in the explosion of fire damp in mines, and is hance calledafter damp; it is also know as choke damp, and mephilic air. Waterwill absorb its own volume of it, and more than this under pressure,and in this state becomes the common soda water of the shops, and thecarbonated water of natural springs. Combined with lime itconstitutes limestone, or common marble and chalk. Plants imbibe itfor their nutrition and growth, the carbon being retained and theoxygen given out.-- Carbonic oxide (Chem.), a colorless gas, CO, of a light odor,called more correctly carbon monoxide. It is almost the onlydefinitely known compound in which carbon seems to be divalent. It isa product of the incomplete combustion of carbon, and is an abundantconstituent of water gas. It is fatal to animal life, extinguishescombustion, and burns with a pale blue flame, forming carbon dioxide.
carbonyl: The radical (CO)'\'b7, occuring, always combined, in manycompounds, as the aldehydes, the ketones, urea, carbonyl chloride,etc.
carcinology: The depertment of zoölogy which treats of the Crustacea(lobsters, crabs, etc.); -- called also malacostracology andcrustaceology.
cardinal: Of fundamental importance; preëminet; superior; chief;principal.The cardinal intersections of the zodiac. Sir T. Browne.Impudence is now a cardinal virtue. Drayton.But cardinal sins, and hollow hearts, I fear ye. Shak.Cardinal numbers, the numbers one, two, three, etc., in distinctionfrom first, second, third, etc., which are called ordinal numbers.-- Cardinal points (a) (Geol.) The four principal points of thecompass, or intersections of the horizon with the meridian and theprime vertical circle, north, south east, and west. (b) (Astrol.) Therising and setting of the sun, the zenith and nadir.-- Cardinal signs (Astron.) Aries, Lidra, Cancer, and Capricorn.-- Cardinal teeth (Zoöl.), the central teeth of bivalve shell. SeeBivalve.-- Cardinal veins (Anat.), the veins in vertebrate embryos, whichrun each side of the vertebral column and returm the blood to theheart. They remain through life in some fishes.-- Cardinal virtues, preëminent virtues; among the ancients,prudence, justice, temperance, and fortitude.-- Cardinal winds, winds which blow from the cardinal points duenorth, south, east, or west.
cardoon: A large herbaceos plant (Cynara Cardunculus) related to theartichoke; -- used in cookery and as a sald.
carelessly: In a careless manner.
carib: A native of the Caribbee islands or the coaste of the Caribbeansea; esp., one of a tribe of Indians inhabiting a region of SouthAmerica, north of the Amazon, and formerly most of the West Indiaislands.
caribbee: A Carib.
carina: A keel.(a) That part of a papilionaceous flower, consisting of two petals,commonly united, which incloses the organs of fructification.(b) A longitudinal ridge or projection like the keel of a boat.
carmine: The essential coloring principle of cochineal, extracted as apurple-red amorphous mass. It is a glucoside and possesses acidproperties; -- hence called also carminic acid. Carmine red (Chem.),a coloring matter obtained from carmine as a purple-red substance,and probably allied to the phthaleïns.
caroche: A kind of pleasure carriage; a coach. [Obs.]To mount two-wheeled caroches. Butler.
carphology: See Flaccillation.
carpogenic: Productive of fruit, or causing fruit to be developed.
carpologist: One who describes fruits; one versed in carpology.
carpophyll: A leaf converted into a fruit or a constituent portion of afruit; a carpel.
carriable: Capable of being carried.
carroty: Like a carrot in color or in taste; -- an epithet given toreddish yellow hair, etc.
cartesianism: The philosophy of Descartes.
cartulary: Defn:
cascarillin: A white, crystallizable, bitter substance extracted from oil ofcascarilla.
caseation: A degeneration of animal tissue into a cheesy or curdy mass.
cashier: One who has charge of money; a cash keeper; the officer who hascharge of the payments and receipts (moneys, checks, notes), of abank or a mercantile company.
cashoo: See Catechu.
cassate: To render void or useless; to vacate or annul. [Obs.]
cassonade: Raw sugar; sugar not refined. Mc Elrath.
castor: A genus of rodents, including the beaver. See Beaver.
casualty: Numerical loss caused by death, wounds, discharge, ordesertion. Casualty ward, A ward in a hospital devoted to thetreatment of injuries received by accident.
catachresis: A figure by which one word is wrongly put for another, or bywhich a word is wrested from its true signification; as, "To takearms against a sea of troubles. " Shak. "Her voice was but the shadowof a sound." Young.
catacomb: A cave, grotto, or subterraneous place of large extent used forthe burial of the dead; -- commonly in the plural.
catacoustic: That part of acoustics which treats of reflected sounds orechoes See Acoustics. Hutton.
catallactics: The science of exchanges, a branch of political economy.
catastrophe: A violent and widely extended change in the surface of theearth, as, an elevation or subsidence of some part of it, effected byinternal causes. Whewell.
catechin: One of the tannic acids, extracted from catechu as a white,crystaline substance; -- called also catechuic acid, and catechuin.
caterwauling: The cry of cats; a harsh, disagreeable noise or cry like thecry of cats. Shak.
cathay: China; -- an old name for the Celestial Empire, said have beenintroduced by Marco Polo and to be a corruption of the Tartar namefor North China (Khitai, the country of the Khitans.)Better fifty years of Europe than a cycle of Cathay. Tennyson.
cathode: The part of a voltaic battery by which the electric currentleaves substances through which it passes, or the surface at whichthe electric current passes out of the electrolyte; the negativepole; -- opposed to anode. Faraday. Cathode ray (Phys.), a kind ofray generated at the cathode in a vacuum tube, by the electricaldischarge.
catilinarian: Pertaining to Catiline, the Roman conspirator; resemblingCatiline's conspiracy.
catlike: Like a cat; stealthily; noiselessly.
catstitch: To fold and sew down the edge of with a coarse zigzag stitch.
cauliculus: In the Corinthian capital, one of the eight stalks rising outof the lower leafage and terminating in leaves which seem to suportthe volutes. See Illust. of Corinthian order, under Corinthian.
causally: According to the order or series of causes; by tracing effectsto causes.
causeful: Having a cause. [Obs.]
causeless: 1. Self-originating; uncreated.
causticness: The quality of being caustic; causticity.
cauterism: The use or application of a caustic; cautery. Ferrand.
cautionry: Suretyship.
cavicornia: A group of ruminants whose horns are hollow, and planted on abony process of the front, as the ox.
cavin: A hollow way, adapted to cover troops, and facilitate theiraproach to a place. Farrow.
cayenne: Cayenne pepper. Cayenne pepper. (a) (Bot.) A species ofcapsicum (C. frutescens) with small and intensely pungent fruit. (b)A very pungent spice made by drying and grinding the fruits or seedsof several species of the genus Capsicum, esp. C. annuum and C.Frutescens; -- Called also red pepper. It is used chiefly as acondiment.
cayugas: ; sing Cayuga. (Ethnol.) A tribe of Indians formerly inbabitingwestern New-York, forming part of the confederacy called the FiveNations.
cedrine: Of or pertaining to cedar or the cedar tree.
cedule: A scroll; a writing; a schedule. [Obs.]
ceinture: A cincture, girdle, or belt; -- chiefly used in English as adressmaking term.
celestially: In a celestial manner.
cellular: Consisting of, or containing, cells; of or pertaining to a cellor cells. Cellular plants, Cellular cryptogams (Bot.), thoseflowerless plants which have no ducts or fiber in their tissue, asmosses, fungi, lichens, and algæ.-- Cellular theory, or Cell theory (Biol.), a theory, according towhich the essential element of every tissue, either vegetable oranimal, is a cell; the whole series of cells having been formed fromthe development of the germ cell and by differentiation convertedinto tissues and organs which, both in plants ans animals, are to beconsidered as a mass of minute cells communicating with each other.-- Cellular tissue. (a) (Anat.) See conjunctive tissue underConjunctive. (b) (Bot.) Tissue composed entirely of parenchyma, andhaving no woody fiber or ducts. cellular telephone, a portable radio-telephone transmitting and receiving the radio-telephonic signalsfrom one of a group of transmitter-receiver stations so arranged thatthey provide adequate signal contact for such telephones over acertain geographical area. The area within which one transmitter mayservice such portable telephones is called its "cell.
cellule: A small cell.
celticize: To render Celtic; to assimilate to the Celts.
cemetery: A place or ground set apart for the burial of the dead; agraveyard; a churchyard; a necropolis.
censer: A vessel for perfumes; esp. one in which incense is burned.
censure: To judge. [Obs.] Shak.
centrifugence: The property or quality of being centrifugal. R. W. Emerson.
centring: See Centring.
centrolinead: An instrument for drawing lines through a point, or linesconverging to a center.
centuriate: Pertaining to, or divided into, centuries or hundreds. [R.]Holland.
cephalothorax: The anterior portion of any one of the Arachnida and higherCrustacea, consisting of the united head and thorax.
cerargyrite: Native silver chloride, a mineral of a white to pale yellow orgray color, darkening on exposure to the light. It may be cut by aknife, like lead or horn (hence called horn silver).
ceratobranchia: A group of nudibranchiate Mollusca having on the backpapilliform or branched organs serving as gills.
ceratohyal: Pertaining to the bone, or carts, large, below the epihyal inthe hyoid arch.-- n.
cerberean: Of or pertaining to, or resembling, Cerberus. [Written alsoCerberian.]With wide Cerberean mouth. Milton.
cere: The soft naked sheath at the base of the beak of birds of prey,parrots, and some other birds. See Beak.
cerebrate: To exhibit mental activity; to have the brain in action.
ceremoniously: In a ceremonious way.
cerographist: One who practices cerography.
cerotype: A printing process of engraving on a surface of wax spread on asteel plate, for electrotyping.
cerule: Blue; cerulean. [Obs.] Dyer.
ceruminous: Pertaining to, or secreting, cerumen; as, the ceruminousglands.
cespitous: Pertaining to, consisting, of resembling, turf; turfy.A cespitous or turfy plant has many stems from the same root, usuallyforming a close, thick carpet of matting. Martyn.
cesspool: A cistern in the course, or the termination, of a drain, tocollect sedimentary or superfluous matter; a privy vault; anyreceptace of filth. [Written also sesspool.]
cestraciont: A shark of the genus Cestracion, and of related genera. Theposterior teeth form a pavement of bony plates for crushingshellfish. Most of the species are extinct. The Port Jackson sharkand a similar one found in California are living examples.
chaetodont: A marine fish of the family Chætodontidæ. The chætodonts havebroad, compressed bodies, and usually bright colors.
chalazion: A small circumscribed tumor of the eyelid caused by retentionof secretion, and by inflammation of the Melbomian glands.
chalk: A soft, earthy substance, of a white, grayish, or yellowishwhite color, consisting of calcium carbonate, and having the samecomposition as common limestone.
chalybite: Native iron carbonate; -- usually called siderite.
chambrel: Same as Gambrel.
chanceably: By chance. [Obs.]
chandoo: An extract or preparation of opium, used in China and India forsmoking. Balfour.
chantant: Composed in a melodious and singing style.
chantor: A chanter.
chaotically: In a chaotic manner.
chapeless: Without a chape.
chapfallen: Having the lower chap or jaw drooping, -- an indication ofhumiliation and dejection; crestfallen; discouraged. See Chopfallen.
chappy: Full of chaps; cleft; gaping; open.
characteristic: Pertaining to, or serving to constitute, the character; showingthe character, or distinctive qualities or traits, of a person orthing; peculiar; distinctive.Characteristic clearness of temper. Macaulay.
chargeless: Free from, or with little, charge.
charity: Defn:Now abideth faith, hope, charity, three; but the greatest of these ischarity. 1. Cor. xiii. 13.They, at least, are little to be envied, in whose hearts the greatcharities . . . lie dead. Ruskin.With malice towards none, with charity for all. Lincoln.
charivari: A mock serenade of discordant noises, made with kettles, tinhorns, etc., designed to annoy and insult.
charnel: Containing the bodies of the dead. "Charnel vaults." Milton.Charnel house, a tomb, vault, cemetery, or other place where thebones of the dead are deposited; originally, a place for the bonesthrown up when digging new graves in old burial grounds.
charqui: Jerked beef; beef cut into long strips and dried in the windand sun. Darwin.
chary: Careful; wary; cautious; not rash, reckless, or spendthrift;saving; frugal.His rising reputation made him more chary of his fame. Jeffrey.
chassis: A traversing base frame, or movable railway, along which thecarriage of a barbette or casemate gum moves backward and forward.[See Gun carriage.]
chatelaine: An ornamental hook, or brooch worn by a lady at her waist, andhaving a short chain or chains attached for a watch, keys, trinkets,etc. Also used adjectively; as, a chatelaine chain.
chati: A small South American species of tiger cat (Felis mitis).
chattiness: The quality of being chatty, or of talking easily andpleasantly.
chaus: a lynxlike animal of Asia and Africa (Lynx Lybicus).
chaussure: A foot covering of any kind.
chawdron: Entrails. [Obs.] [Written also chaudron, chauldron.] Shak.
cheap: A bargain; a purchase; cheapness. [Obs.]The sack that thou hast drunk me would have bought me lights as goodcheap at the dearest chandler's in Europe. Shak.
cheaply: At a small price; at a low value; in a common or inferiormanner.
checker: One who checks.
checkers: A game, called also daughts, played on a checkerboard by twopersons, each having twelve men (counters or checkers) which aremoved diagonally. The game is ended when either of the players haslost all his men, or can not move them.
cheep: To chirp, as a young bird.
cheiloplasty: The process of forming an artificial tip or part of a lip, byusing for the purpose a piece of healthy tissue taken from someneighboring part.
cheirosophy: The art of reading character as it is delineated in the hand.-- Chei*ros"o*phist (, n.
cheliform: Having a movable joint or finger closing againts a precedingjoint or a projecting part of it, so that the whole may be ised forgrasping, as the claw of a crab; pincherlike.
chemist: A person versed in chemistry or given to chemicalinvestigation; an analyst; a maker or seller of chemicals or drugs.
cherogril: See Cony.
cherubim: The Hebrew plural of Cherub.. Cf. Seraphim.
chese: To choose [Obs.] Chaucer.
chessil: Gravel or pebbles. Halliwell.
chessman: A piece used in the game of chess.
chetvert: A measure of grain equal to 0.7218 of an imperial quarter, or5.95 Winchester bushels. [Russia]
chevrotain: A small ruminant of the family Tragulidæ a allied to the muskdeer. It inhabits Africa and the East Indies. See Kanchil.
chiastolite: A variety of andalusite; -- called also macle. The tesselatedapperance of a cross section is due to the symmetrical arrangement ofimpurities in the crystal.
chich: The chick-pea.
chicory: A branching perennial plant (Cichorium Intybus) with brightblue flowers, growing wild in Europe, Asia, and America; alsocultivated for its roots and as a salad plant; succory; wild endive.See Endive.
chiefrie: A small rent paid to the lord paramount. [Obs.] Swift.
chiliagon: A plane figure of a thousand angles and sides. Barlow.
chimango: A south American carrion buzzard (Milvago chimango). SeeCaracara.
chimer: One who chimes.
chimera: A monster represented as vomiting flames, and as having thehead of a lion, the body of a goat, and the tail of a dragon. "Direchimeras and enchanted isles." Milton.
chimere: The upper robe worn by a bishop, to which lawn sleeves areusually attached. Hook.
chinaldine: See Quinaldine.
chinoiserie: Chinese conduct, art, decoration, or the like; also, a specimenof Chinese manners, art, decoration, etc.
chinquapin: A branching, nut-bearing tree or shrub (Castanea pumila) ofNorth America, from six to twenty feet high, allied to the chestnut.Also, its small, sweet, edible nat. [Written also chincapin andchinkapin.] Chinquapin oak, a small shrubby oak (Quercus prinoides)of the Atlantic States, with edible acorns.-- Western Chinquapin, an evergreen shrub or tree (Castanopeschrysophylla) of the Pacific coast. In California it is a shrub; inOregon a tree 30 to 125 feet high.
chiragra: Gout in the hand.
chiragrical: Having the gout in the hand, or subject to that disease. Sir.T. Browne.
chirm: To chirp or to make a mournful cry, as a bird. [Obs.] Huloet.
chirogymnast: A mechanocal contrivance for exercesing the fingers of apianist.
chirrupy: Cheerful; joyous; chatty.
chit: To shoot out; to sprout.I have known barley chit in seven hours after it had been thrownforth. Mortimer.
chitchat: Familiar or trifling talk; prattle.
chiton: One of a group of gastropod mollusks, with a shell composed ofeight movable dorsal plates. See Polyplacophora.
chivachie: A cavalry raid; hence, a military expedition. [Obs.] Chaucer.
chivalrously: In a chivalrous manner; gallantly; magnanimously.
chive: A filament of a stamen. [Obs.]
chlamydate: Having a mantle; -- applied to certain gastropods.
chlamys: A loose and flowing outer garment, worn by the ancient Greeks;a kind of cloak.
chloral: A colorless oily liquid, CCl3.CHO, of a pungent odor and harshtaste, obtained by the action of chlorine upon ordinary or ethylalcohol.
chloride: A binary compound of chlorine with another element or radical;as, chloride of sodium (common salt). Chloride of ammonium, salammoniac.-- Chloride of lime, bleaching powder; a grayish white substance,CaOClcalcium hypochlorite. See Hypochlorous acid, under Hypochlorous.-- Mercuric chloride, corrosive sublimate.
chlormethane: A colorless gas, CH3Cl, of a sweet odor, easily condensed to aliquid; -- called also methyl chloride.
chlorometry: The process of testing the bleaching power of any combinationof chlorine.
chloruret: A chloride. [Obs.]
choak: See Choke.
chockablock: Hoisted as high as the tackle will admit; brought closetogether, as the two blocks of a tackle in hoisting.
chode: the old imp. of chide. See Chide.
chokecherry: The astringent fruit of a species of wild cherry (PrunusVirginiana); also, the bush or tree which bears such fruit.
cholaemaa: A disease characterized by severe nervous symptoms, dependentupon the presence of the constituents of the bile in the blood.
chondrology: The science which treats of cartilages. Dunglison.
chooser: One who chooses; one who has the power or right of choosing; anelector. Burke.
chorography: the mapping or description of a region or district.The chorography of their provinces. Sir T. Browne.
chowchow: Consisting of several kinds mingled together; mixed; as,chowchow sweetmeats (preserved fruits put together).
christianly: In a manner becoming the principles of the Christian religion.Sufferings . . . patiently and Christianly borne. Sharp.
christianness: Consonance with the doctrines of Christianity. [Obs.] Hammond.
christlike: Resembling Christ in character, actions, etc.-- Christ"like`ness, n.
christmastide: The season of Christmas.
christology: A treatise on Christ; that department of theology which treatsof the personality, attributes, or life of Christ.
chromascope: An instrument for showing the optical effects of color.
chromo: A chromolithograph.
chromogenic: Containing, or capable of forming, chromogen; as, chromogenicbacteria.
chromolithographer: One who is engaged in chromolithography.
chromophotography: The art of producing photographs in colors.
chromosome: One of the minute bodies into which the chromatin of thenucleus is resolved during mitotic cell division; the idant ofWeismann.
chrysopa: A genus of neuropterous insects. See Lacewing.
chthonic: Pertaining to the earth; earthy; as, chthonic religions.[The] chthonic character of the wife of Zeus. Max Müller.
chubbed: Chubby. [R.] H. Brooke.
chubbedness: The state of being chubby.
chud: To champ; to bite. [Obs.] A. Stafford.
chump: A short, thick, heavy piece of wood. Morton. Chump end, thethick end; as, the chump end of a joint of meat. Dickens.
chylopoetic: Concerned in the formation of chyle; as, the chylopoeticorgans.
chymous: Of or pertaining to chyme.
cicatricle: The germinating point in the embryo of a seed; the point in theyolk of an egg at which development begins.
cicatrose: Full of scars. Craig.
ciceronian: Resembling Cicero in style or action; eloquent.
ciderkin: A kind of weak cider made by steeping the refuse pomace inwater.Ciderkin is made for common drinking, and supplies the place of smallbeer. Mortimer.
cilium: See Cilia.
cimbrian: Of or pertaining to the Cimbri.-- n.
cimeliarch: A superintendent or keeper of a church's valuables; achurchwarden. [Obs.] Bailey.
cimex: A genus of hemipterous insects of which the bedbug is the bestknown example. See Bedbug.
cimiss: The bedbug. [Obs.] Wright.
cimolite: A soft, earthy, clayey mineral, of whitish or grayish color.
cinefaction: Cineration; reduction to ashes. [Obs.]
cinematics: See Kinematics.
cinematographer: One who exhibits moving pictures or who takes chronophotographsby the cinematograph. -- Cin`e*mat`o*graph"ic (#), a. --Cin`e*mat`o*graph"ic*al*ly (#), adv.
cineraceous: Like ashes; ash-colored; cinerous.
cinerary: Pertaining to ashes; containing ashes. Cinerary urns, vesselsused by the ancients to preserve the ashes of the dead when burned.
cinereous: Like ashes; ash-colored; grayish.
cingalese: A native or natives of Ceylon descended from its primitiveinhabitants; also (sing.),
cinnabar: Red sulphide of mercury, occurring in brilliant red crystals,and also in red or brown amorphous masses. It is used in medicine.
cinquefoil: The name of several different species of the genus Potentilla;-- also called five-finger, because of the resemblance of its leavesto the fingers of the hand.
cion: See Scion.The cion overruleth the stock; and the stock is but passive, andgiveth aliment, but no motion, to the graft. Bacon.
cipherhood: Nothingness. [R.] Goodwin.
cipolin: A whitish marble, from Rome, containiing pale greenish zones.It consists of calcium carbonate, with zones and cloudings of talc.
circularly: In a circular manner.
circulet: A circlet. [Obs.] Spenser.
circumfer: To bear or carry round. [Obs.] Bacon.
circumflant: Blowing around. [Obs.] Evelyn.
circumfusile: Capable of being poured or spread round. "Circumfusile gold."Pope.
circumgestation: The act or process of carrying about. [Obs.]Circumgestation of the eucharist to be adored. Jer. Taylor.
circumgyration: The act of turning, rolling, or whirling round.A certain turbulent and irregular circumgyration. Holland.
circumnavigator: One who sails round. W. Guthrie.
circumposition: The act of placing in a circle, or round about, or the state ofbeing so placed. Evelyn.
circumspect: Attentive to all the circustances of a case or the probableconsequences of an action; cautious; prudent; wary.
circumspectness: Vigilance un guarding against evil from every quarter; caution.[Travel] forces circumspectness on those abroad, who at home arenursed in security. Sir H. Wotton.
circumvest: To cover round, as woth a garment; to invest. [Obs.]Circumvested with much prejudice. Sir H. Wotton.
cirrhosis: A disease of the liver in which it usually becomes smaller insize and more dense and fibrous in consistence; hence sometimesapplied to similar changes in other organs, caused by increase in thefibrous framework and decrease in the proper substance of the organ.
cirriferous: Bearing cirri, as many plants and animals.
cisalpine: On the hither side of the Alps with reference to Rome, that is,on the south side of the Alps; -- opposed to transalpine.
cisleithan: On the Austrian side of the river Leitha; Austrian.
cissoid: A curve invented by Diocles, for the purpose of solving twocelebrated problems of the higher geometry; viz., to trisect a planeangle, and to construct two geometrical means between two givenstraight lines.
citator: One who cites. [R]
citizeness: A female citizen. [R.]
citole: A musical instrument; a kind of dulcimer. [Obs.]
clachan: A small village containing a church. [Scot.] Sir W. ScottSitting at the clachon alehouse. R. L. Stevenson.
clamber: To climb with difficulty, or with hands and feet; -- also usedfiguratively.The narrow street that clambered toward the mill. Tennyson.
clammily: In a clammy manner. "Oozing so clammily." Hood.
clamper: An instrument of iron, with sharp prongs, attached to a boot orshoe to enable the wearer to walk securely upon ice; a creeper. Kane.
clangor: A sharp, harsh, ringing sound. Dryden.
clape: A bird; the flicker.
clarendon: A style of type having a narrow and heave face. It is made inall sizes.
clarigate: To declare war with certain ceremonies. [Obs.] Holland.
clarisonus: Having a clear sound. [Obs.] Ash.
clart: To daub, smear, or spread, as with mud, etc. [Prov. Eng.]Halliwell.
clathrate: Shaped like a lattice; cancellate. Gray.
claviger: One who carries the keys of any place.
clavigerous: Bearing a club or a key.
claw: A slender appendage or process, formed like a claw, as the baseof petals of the pink. Gray. Claw hammer, a hammer with one end ofthe metallic head cleft for use in extracting nails, etc.-- Claw hammer coat, a dress coat of the swallowtail pattern.[Slang] -- Claw sickness, foot rot, a disease affecting sheep.
claytonia: An American genus of perennial herbs with delicate blossoms; --sometimes called spring beauty.
cleanser: One who, or that which, cleanses; a detergent. Arbuthnot.
cledge: The upper stratum of fuller's earth.
clergeon: A chorister boy. [Obs.] Chaucer.
clicker: One who as has charge of the work of a companionship.
clicky: Resembling a click; abounding in clicks. "Their strange clickylanguage." The Century.
climactic: Of or pertaining to a climax; forming, or of the nature of, aclimax, or ascending series.
climatize: To acclimate or become acclimated.
climbable: Capable of being climbed.
clinch: To hold fast; to grasp something firmly; to seize or grasp oneanother.
clinoid: Like a bed; -- applied to several processes on the inner sideof the sphenoid bone.
clinometry: That art or operation of measuring the inclination of strata.
clinorhombic: Possessing the qualities of a prism, obliquely inclined to arhombic base; monoclinic.
clique: A narrow circle of persons associated by common interests orfor the accomplishment of a common purpose; -- generally used in abad sense.
cloakroom: A room, attached to any place of public resort, where cloaks,overcoats, etc., may be deposited for a time.
clodpated: Stupid; dull; doltish.
cloggy: Clogging, or having power to clog.
clong: imp. of Cling. [Obs.]
closh: A disease in the feet of cattle; laminitis. Crabb.
clothing: See Card clothing, under 3d Card.
clove: imp. of Cleave. Cleft. Spenser. Clove hitch (Naut.) See underHitch.-- Clove hook (Naut.), an iron two-part hook, with jaws overlapping,used in bending chain sheets to the clews of sails; -- called alsoclip hook. Knight.
clownage: Behavior or manners of a clown; clownery. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
clubbable: Suitable for membership in a club; sociable. [Humorous.] G. W.Curtis.
clubbed: Shaped like a club; grasped like, or used as, a club. Skelton.
clucking: The noise or call of a brooding hen.
clyster: A liquid injected into the lower intestines by means of asyringe; an injection; an enema. Clyster pipe, a tube or pipe usedfor injections.
coacervation: A heaping together. [R.] Bacon.
coadaptation: Mutual adaption. R. Owen.
coagulable: Capable of being coagulated. Boyle.
coagulant: That which produces coagulation.
coagulate: Coagulated. [Obs.] Shak.
coagulatory: Serving to coagulate; produced by coagulation; as, coagulatoryeffects. Boyle.
coalescent: Growing together; cohering, as in the organic cohesion ofsimilar parts; uniting.
coaptation: The adaptation or adjustment of parts to each other, as of abroken bone or dislocated joint.
coarseness: The quality or state of being coarse; roughness; melegance;vulgarity; grossness; as, coarseness of food, texture, manners, orlanguage. "The coarseness of the sackcloth." Dr. H. More.Pardon the coarseness of the illustration. L'Estrange.A coarseness and vulgarity in all the proceedings. Burke.
cobaea: A genus of climbing plants, native of Mexico and South America.C. scandens is a consrvatory climber with large bell-shaped flowers.
cobble: A fishing boat. See Coble.
cobourg: A thin worsted fabric for women's dresses.
cobstone: Cobblestone. [Prov. Eng.]
cobwebby: Abounding in cobwebs, or any fine web; resembling a cobweb.
cocaine: A powerful alkaloid, C17H21NO4, obtained from the leaves ofcoca. It is a bitter, white, crystalline substance, and is remarkablefor producing local insensibility to pain.
cocainize: To treat or anæsthetize with cocaine. -- Co*ca`in*i*za"tion(#), n.
cockboat: A small boat, esp. one used on rivers or near the shore.
cocket: Pert; saucy. [Obs.] Halliwell.
cockney: Of or relating to, or like, cockneys.
cockneydom: The region or home of cockneys; cockneys, collectively.Thackeray.
cockroach: An orthopterus insect of the genus Blatta, and allied genera.
cocoonery: A building or apartment for silkworms, when feeding and formingcocoons.
coctible: Capable of being cooked. Blount.
cod: An important edible fish (Gadus morrhua), Taken in immensenumbers on the northern coasts of Europe and America. It isespecially abundant and large on the Grand Bank of Newfoundland. Itis salted and dried in large quantities.
coelenterate: Belonging to the Coelentra.-- n.
coenoecium: The common tissue which unites the various zooids of abryozoan.
coerulignone: A bluish violet, crystalline substance obtained in thepurification of crude wood vinegar. It is regarded as a complexquinone derivative of diphenyl; -- called also cedriret.
coestate: Joint estate. Smolett.
coeternity: Existence from eternity equally with another eternal being;equal eternity.
coexisting: Coexistent. Locke.
coffeepot: A covered pot im which coffee is prepared,
coggle: A small fishing boat. Ham. Nav. Encyc.
cogitate: To engage in continuous thought; to think.He that calleth a thing into his mind, whether by impression orrecordation, cogitateth and considereth, and he that employeth thefaculty of his fancy also cogitateth. Bacon.
cognateness: The state of being cognate.
cognoscibility: The quality of being cognoscible. Cudworth.
coherently: In a coherent manner.
cohobate: To repeat the distillation of, pouring the liquor back upon thematter remaining in the vessel. Arbuthnot.
coinquinate: Topollute. [Obs.] Skelton.
coinstantaneous: Happening at the same instant. C. Darwin.
colicky: Pertaining to, or troubled with, colic; as, a colicky disorder.
colitis: An inflammation of the large intestine, esp. of its mucousmembrane; colonitis.
collationer: One who examines the sheets of a book that has just beenprinted, to ascertain whether they are correctly printed, paged, etc.[Eng.]
colley: See Collie.
colliquament: The first rudiments of an embryo in generation. Dr. H. More.
collish: A tool to polish the edge of a sole. Knight.
collisive: Colliding; clashing. [Obs.]
collocate: Set; placed. [Obs.] Bacon.
collocutor: One of the speakers in a dialogue. Derham.
collodionize: To prepare or treat with collodion. R. Hunt.
colloquist: A speaker in a colloquy or dialogue. Malone.
colonist: A member or inhabitant of a colony.
colony: A number of animals or plants living or growing together,beyond their usual range.
colophonite: A coarsely granular variety of garnet.
colosseum: The amphitheater of Vespasian in Rome. [Also written Coliseum.]
colour: See Color.
columbary: A dovecote; a pigeon house. Sir T. Browne.
columbier: See Colombier.
columbium: A rare element of the vanadium group, first found in a varietyof the mineral columbite occurring in Connecticut, probably atHaddam. Atomic weight 94.2. Symbol Cb or Nb. Now more commonly calledniobium.
columelliform: Shaped like a little column, or columella.
columnar: Formed in columns; having the form of a column or columns; likethe shaft of a column. Columnar epithelium (Anat.), epithelium inwhich the cells are priismatic in form, and set upright on thesurface they cover.-- Columnar structure (Geol.), a structure consisting of more orless regular columns, usually six-sided, but sometimes with eight ormore sides. The columns are often fractured transversely, with a cupjoint, showing a concave surface above. This structure ischaracteristic of certain igneous rocks, as basalt, and is due tocontraction in cooling.
columnated: Having columns; as, columnated temples.
comanches: A warlike, savage, and nomadic tribe of the Shoshone family ofIndians, inhabiting Mexico and the adjacent parts of the UnitedStates; -- called also Paducahs. They are noted for plundering andcruelty.
combustious: Inflammable. [Obs.] Shak.
comedienne: A women who plays in comedy.
comeliness: The quality or state of being comely.Comeliness is a disposing fair Of things and actions in fit time andplace. Sir J. Davies.Strength, comeliness of shape, or amplest merit. Milton.Comeliness signifies something less forcible than beauty, lesselegant than grace, and less light than prettiness. Johnson.
comestible: Suitable to be eaten; eatable; esculent.Some herbs are most comestible. Sir T. Elyot.
comether: Matter; affair.
cometographer: One who describes or writes about comets.
commemorator: One who commemorates.
commence: To enter upon; to begin; to perform the first act of.Many a wooer doth commence his suit. Shak.
commingle: To mingle together; to mix in one mass, or intimately; toblend. Bacon.
commissionate: To commission [Obs.]
commissionship: The office of commissioner. Sir W. Scott.
commissure: The line of junction or cohering face of two carpels, as in theparsnip, caraway, etc.
commote: To commove; to disturb; to stir up. [R.]Society being more or less commoted and made uncomfortable.Hawthorne.
communicativeness: The quality of being communicative. Norris.
commutator: A piece of apparatus used for reversing the direction of anelectrical current; an attachment to certain electrical machines, bymeans of which alternating currents are made to be continuous or tohave the same direction.
comparer: One who compares.
compartition: The act of dividing into parts or compartments; division; also,a division or compartment. [Obs.]Their temples . . . needed no compartitions. Sir H. Wotton.
compassing: Curved; bent; as, compassing timbers.
compassionate: To have compassion for; to pity; to commiserate; to sympathizewith.Compassionates my pains, and pities me. Addison.
compatible: Capable of existing in harmony; congruous; suitable; notrepugnant; -- usually followed by with.Our poets have joined together such qualities as are by nature themost compatible. Broome.
compatibleness: Compatibility; consistency; fitness; agreement.
compeer: An equal, as in rank, age, prowess, etc.; a companion; acomrade; a mate.And him thus answer 'd soon his bold compeer. Milton.
compendiate: To sum or collect together. [Obs.] Bp. King.
compendiousness: The state or quality of being compendious.
compendium: A brief compilation or composition, containing the principalheads, or general principles, of a larger work or system; anabridgment; an epitome; a compend; a condensed summary.A short system or compendium of a sience. I. Watts.
comperendinate: To delay. Bailey.
competently: In a competent manner; adequately; suitably.
compilator: Compiler. [Obs.]
complaintful: Full of complaint. [Obs.]
complected: Complexioned. [Low, New Eng.]
complete: Having all the parts or organs which belong to it or to thetypical form; having calyx, corolla, stamens, and pistil.
complexedness: The quality or state of being complex or involved;complication.The complexedness of these moral ideas. Locke.
complication: A disease or diseases, or adventitious circumstances orconditions, coexistent with and modifying a primary disease, but notnecessarily connected with it.
complotment: A plotting together. [R.]
comportation: A bringing together. [Obs.] Bp. Richardson.
comprehension: The complement of attributes which make up the notion signifiedby a general term.
compromiser: One who compromises.
compulsatively: By compulsion. [R.]
compulsive: Having power to compel; exercising or applying compulsion.Religion is . . . inconsistent with all compulsive motives. Sharp.
compurgator: One who bears testimony or swears to the veracity or innocenceof another. See Purgation; also Wager of law, under Wager.All they who know me . . . will say they have reason in this matterto be my compurgators. Chillingworth.
comtism: Positivism; the positive philosophy. See Positivism.
conation: The power or act which directs or impels to effort of any kind,whether muscular or psychical.Of conation, in other words, of desire and will. J. S. Mill.
concealed: Hidden; kept from sight; secreted.-- Con*ceal"ed*ly (, adv.-- Con*ceal"ed*ness, n. Concealed weapons (Law), dangerous weaponsso carried on the person as to be knowingly or willfully concealedfrom sight, -- a practice forbidden by statute.
concealment: Suppression of such facts and circumstances as in justice oughtto be made known. Wharton.
concentrate: To approach or meet in a common center; to consolidate; as,population tends to concentrate in cities.
concentrativeness: The faculty or propensity which has to do with concentratingthe intellectual the intellectual powers. Combe.
concentricity: The state of being concentric.
conceptibility: The quality of being conceivable; conceivableness. Cudworth.
conceptional: Pertaining to conception.
conceptualist: One who maintains the theory of conceptualism. Stewart.
concerted: Mutually contrived or planned; agreed on; as, concertedschemes, signals. Concerted piece (Mus.), a composition in parts forseveral voices or instrument, as a trio, a quartet, etc.
concessory: Conceding; permissive.
concettism: The use of concetti or affected conceits. [R.] C. Kingsley.
conchological: Pertaining to, or connected with, conchology.
concierge: One who keeps the entrance to an edifice, public or private; adoorkeeper; a janitor, male or female.
conciliative: Conciliatory. Coleridge.
concinnous: Characterized by concinnity; neat; elegant. [R.]The most concinnous and most rotund of proffessors, M. Heyne. DeQuiency.
concite: To excite or stir up. [Obs.] Cotgrave.
concreate: To create at the same time.If God did concreate grace with Adam. Jer. Taylor.
concrescible: Capable of being changed from a liquid to a solid state. [Obs.]They formed a . . . fixed concrescible oil. Fourcroy (Trans. ).
concrescive: Growing together, or into union; uniting. [R.] Eclec. Rev.
concretely: In a concrete manner.
concreteness: The quality of being concrete.
concubinage: A plea, in which it is alleged that the woman suing for dowerwas not lawfully married to the man in whose lands she seeks to beendowed, but that she was his concubine.
concupiscibleness: The state of being concupiscible. [Obs.]
concurrent: Meeting in one point.
concurrentness: The state or quality of being concurrent; concurrence.
conduce: To lead or tend, esp. with reference to a favorable ordesirable result; to contribute; -- usually followed by to or toward.He was sensible how much such a union would conduce to the happinessof both. Macaulay.The reasons you allege do more conduce To the hot passion ofdistemper'd blood. Shak.
condyloid: Shaped like or pertaining to a condyle.
confab: Familiar talk or conversation. [Colloq.]
confabulate: To talk familiarly together; to chat; to prattle.I shall not ask Jean Jaques Rousseau If birds confabulate or no.Cowper.
confated: Fated or decreed with something else. [R.] A. Tucker.
confirmation: A rite supplemental to baptism, by which a person is admitted,through the laying on of the hands of a bishop, to the fullprivileges of the church, as in the Roman Catholic, the EpiscopalChurch, etc.This ordinance is called confirmation, because they who duly receiveit are confirmed or strengthened for the fulfillment of theirChristian duties, by the grace therein bestowed upon them. Hook.
confirmingly: In a confirming manner.
conflagrant: Burning together in a common flame. [R.] "The conflagrantmass."  Milton.
conform: Of the same form; similar in import; conformable.  Bacon.
confraternity: A society or body of men united for some purpose, or in someprofession; a brotherhood.
confrontation: Act of confronting.  H. Swinburne.
confronte: Same as Affronté.
confronter: One who confronts.
congener: A thing of the same genus, species, or kind; a thing allied innature, character, or action.
congenious: Congeneric. [Obs.]
conglaciate: To turn to ice; to freeze. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
conglomeration: The act or process of gathering into a mass; the state of beingthus collected; collection; accumulation; that which isconglomerated; a mixed mass. Bacon.
conglutinant: Cementing together; uniting closely; causing to adhere;promoting healing, as of a wound or a broken bone, by adhesion of theparts.
congratulator: One who offers congratulation. Milton.
congressional: Of or pertaining to a congress, especially, to the Congress ofthe United States; as, congressional debates.Congressional and official labor. E. Everett.Congressional District, one of the divisions into which a State isperiodically divided (according to population), each of which isentitled to elect a Representative to the Congress of the UnitedStates.
conjecture: An opinion, or judgment, formed on defective or presumptiveevidence; probable inference; surmise; guess; suspicion.He [Herodotus] would thus have corrected his first loose conjectureby a real study of nature. Whewell.Conjectures, fancies, built on nothing firm. Milton.
conjecturer: One who conjectures. Hobbes.
conjointly: In a conjoint manner; untitedly; jointly; together. Sir T.Browne.
conjunctiveness: The state or quality of being conjunctive. Johnson.
conjuror: One bound by a common cath with others. [Obs.]
connature: Participation in a common nature or character. [R.]Connature was defined as likeness in kind between either two changesin consciousness, or two states of consciousness. H. Spencer.
connive: To shut the eyes to; to overlook; to pretend not to see. [R. &Obs.] "Divorces were not connived only, but with eye open allowed."Milton.
connotate: To connote; to suggest or designate (something) as additional;to include; to imply. Hammond.
conquest: The acquiring of property by other means than by inheritance;acquisition. Blackstone.
conscienceless: Without conscience; indifferent to conscience; unscrupulous.Conscienceless and wicked patrons. Hookre.
consecratory: Of or pertaining to the act of consecration; dedicatory.The consecratory prayer. Bp. Burnet.
consecutive: Having similarity of sequence; -- said of certain parallelprogressions of two parts in a piece of harmony; as, consecutivefifths, or consecutive octaves, which are forbidden. Consecutivechords (Mus.), chords of the same kind suceeding one another withoutinterruption.
consension: Agreement; accord. Bentley.
consequentialness: The quality of being consequential.
conservativeness: The quality of being conservative.
conserve: A medicinal confection made of freshly gathered vegetablesubstances mixed with finely powdered refined sugar. See Confection.
considerative: Considerate; careful; thoughtful. [Archaic]I love to be considerative. B. Jonson.
consignor: One who consigns something to another; -- opposed to consignee.[Written also consigner.]
consol: A consolidated annuity (see Consols); -- chiefly in combinationor attributively.
consoler: One who gives consolation.
consolidative: Tending or having power to consolidate; healing.
consort: A ship keeping company with another.
conspersion: The act of sprinkling. [Obs.]The conspersion washing the doorposts. Jer. Taylor.
conspicuity: The state or quality of being clear or bright; brightness;conspicuosness. [R.] Chapman.
conspirator: One who engages in a conspiracy; a plotter. 2 Sam. xv. 31.
constat: A certificate showing what appears upon record touching amatter in question.
constipate: To render costive; to cause constipation in.
constitutionist: One who adheres to the constitution of the country.Bolingbroke.
constupration: The act of ravishing; violation; defilement. Bp. Hall.
consubstantial: Of the same kind or nature; having the same substance oressence; coessential.Christ Jesus . . . coeternal and consubstantial with the Father andwith the Holy Ghost. Foxe.
consubstantialism: The doctrine of consubstantiation.
consuetude: Custom, habit; usage. [R.]To observe this consuetude or law. Barnes.
consult: To seek the opinion or advice of another; to take consel; todeliberate together; to confer.Let us consult upon to-morrow's business. Shak.All the laws of England have been made by the kings England,consulting with the nobility and commons. Hobbes.
consumptiveness: A state of being consumptive, or a tendency to a consumption.
contabescent: Wasting away gradually. Darwin. - Con*ta*bes"cence, n.
contagiousness: Quality of being contagious.
contaminate: To soil, stain, or corrupt by contact; to tarnish; to sully; totaint; to pollute; to defile.Shall we now Contaminate our figures with base bribes Shak.I would neither have simplicity imposed upon, nor virtuecontaminated. Goldsmith.
contamitive: Tending or liable to contaminate.
contemptibly: In a contemptible manner.
content: Contained within limits; hence, having the desires limited bythat which one has; not disposed to repine or grumble; satisfied;contented; at rest.Having food rainment, let us be therewith content. 1 Tim. vi. 8.
contestingly: In a contending manner.
contort: To twist, or twist together; to turn awry; to bend; to distort;to wrest.The vertebral arteries are variously contorted. Ray.Kant contorted the term category from the proper meaning ofattributed. Sir W. Hamilton.
contortive: Expressing contortion.
contour: The outline of a horizontal section of the ground, or of worksof fortification. Contour feathers (Zoöl.), those feathers that formthe general covering of a bird.-- Contour of ground (Surv.), the outline of the surface of groundwith respect to its undulation, etc.-- Contour line (Topographical Suv.), the line in which a horizontalplane intersects a portion of ground, or the corresponding line in amap or chart.
contradictable: Capable of being contradicting.
contradictorily: In a contradictory manner. Sharp.
contradistinct: Distinguished by opposite qualities. J. Goodwin.
contraindication: An indication or symptom which forbids the method of treatmentusual in such cases.
contraption: A contrivance; a new-fangled device; -- used scornfully.[Colloq. or Dial.] -- Con*trap"tious (#), a.
contrariant: Contrary; opposed; antagonistic; inconsistent; contradictory.[R.]The struggles of contrariant factions. Coleridge.
contrastimulant: Counteracting the effects of stimulants; relating to a courseof medical treatment based on a theory of contrastimulants.-- n. (Med.)
contraversion: A turning to the opposite side; antistrophe. Congreve.
contribution: An irregular and arbitrary imposition or tax leved on thepeople of a town or country.These sums, . . . and the forced contributions paid by lucklesspeasants, enabled him to keep his straggling troops together. Motley.
controverter: One who controverts; a controversial writer; acontroversialist.Some controverters in divinity are like swaggerers in a tavern. B.Jonson.
controvertible: Capable of being controverted; disputable; admitting ofquestion.-- Con`tro*ver"ti*bly, adv.
convent: To call before a judge or judicature; to summon; to convene.[Obs.] Shak.
conventionally: In a conventional manner.
conversant: One who converses with another; a convenser. [R.]
conversationed: Acquainted with manners and deportment; behaved. [Obs.]Till she be better conversationed, . . . I'll keep As far from her asthe gallows. Beau. & Fl.
conversion: An appropriation of, and dealing with the property of anotheras if it were one's own, without right; as, the conversion of ahorse.Or bring my action of conversion And trover for my goods. Hudibras.
converter: A retort, used in the Bessemer process, in which molten castiron is decarburized and converted into steel by a blast of airforced through the liquid metal.
convexedness: Convexity.
convictive: Convincing. [R.]The best and most convictive argument. Glanwill.-- Con*vict"ive*ly, adv.-- Con*vict"ive*ness, n.
convincement: Act of convincing, or state of being convinced; conviction.[R.]The fear of a convincement. Milton.
convival: pertaining to a feast or to festivity; convivial. [Obs.] "Aconvival dish." Sir T. Browne.
convolvulus: A large genus of plants having monopetalous flowers, includingthe common bindweed (C. arwensis), and formerly the morning-glory,but this is now transferred to the genus Ipomæa.The luster of the long convolvuluses That coiled around the statelystems. Tennyson.
coopery: Relating to a cooper; coopered. [Obs.]Coopery vessels made of wood. Holland.
coordinate: Equal in rank or order; not subordinate.Whether there was one Supreme Governor of the world, or manycoördinate powers presiding over each country. Law.Conjunctions joint sentences and coördinate terms. Rev. R. Morris.Coördinate adjectives, adjectives disconnected as regards aneanother, but referring equally to the same subject.-- Coördinate conjunctions, conjunctions joining independentpropositions. Rev. R. Morris.
cop: same as Merlon.
copeck: A Russian copper coin. See Kopeck.
coppel: See Cupel.
coppin: A cop of thread.
coralloid: Having the form of coral; branching like coral.
corb: An ornament in a building; a corbel.
cordovan: Same as Cordwain. in England the name is applied to leathermade from horsehide.
cordwain: A term used in the Middle Ages for Spanish leather (goatskintanned and dressed), and hence, any leather handsomely finished,colored, gilded, or the like.Buskins he wore of costliest cordwain. Spenser.
coreopsis: A genus of herbaceous composite plants, having the achenes two-horned and remotely resembling some insect; tickseed. C. tinctoria,of the Western plains, the commonest plant of the genus, has beenused in dyeing.
corival: A rival; a corrival.
corneule: One of the corneas of a compound eye in the invertebrates.Carpenter.
cornopean: An obsolete name for the cornet-à-piston.
corolla: The inner envelope of a flower; the part which surrounds theorgans of fructification, consisting of one or more leaves, calledpetals. It is usually distinguished from the calyx by the fineness ofits texture and the gayness of its colors. See the Note underBlossom.
corona: The projecting part of a Classic cornice, the under side ofwhich is cut with a recess or channel so as to form a drip. SeeIllust. of Column.
corporealism: Materialism. Cudworth.
corporeality: The state of being corporeal; corporeal existence.
correctify: To correct. [Obs.]When your worship's plassed to correctify a lady. Beau & Fl.
corridor: A gallery or passageway leading to several apartments of ahouse.
corrigibility: Quality of being corrigible; capability of being corrected;corrigibleness.
corroborative: Tending to strengthen of confirm.
corrugate: Wrinkled; crumpled; furrowed; contracted into ridges andfurrows.
corrump: To corrupt. See Corrupt. [Obs.] Chauser.
corvee: An obligation to perform certain services, as the repair ofroads, for the lord or sovereign.
corybantic: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the Corybantes or theirrites; frantic; frenzied; as, a corybantic dance.
coscinomancy: Divination by means of a suspended sieve.
cosen: See Cozen.
cosmetic: Any external application intended to beautify and improve thecomplexion.
cosmically: Belonging to cosmogony. B. Powell. Gladstone.
cosmolabe: An instrument resembling the astrolabe, formerly used formeasuring the angles between heavenly bodies; -- called alsopantacosm.
cost: See Cottise.
costage: Expense; cost. [Obs.] Chaucer.
costellate: Finely ribbed or costated.
costmary: A garden plant (Chrysanthemum Balsamita) having a strongbalsamic smell, and nearly allied to tansy. It is used as a pot herband salad plant and in flavoring ale and beer. Called also alecost.
costrel: A bottle of leather, earthenware, or wood, having ears by whichit was suspended at the side. [Archaic]A youth, that, following with a costrel, bore The means of goodlywelcome, flesh and wine. Tennyson.
cotangent: The tangent of the complement of an arc or angle. See Illust.of Functions.
cotgare: Refuse wool. [Obs. or Prov.]
cottonade: A somewhat stoun and thick fabric of cotton.
couchancy: State of lying down for repose. [R.]
couched: Same as Couch.
coulee: A stream; (Geol.)
couloir: A dredging machine for excavating canals, etc.
counteract: To act in opposition to; to hinder, defeat, or frustrate, bycontrary agency or influence; as, to counteract the effect ofmedicines; to counteract good advice.
counterbuff: To strike or drive back or in an opposite direction; to stop bya blow or impulse in front. Dryden.
counterfeitly: By forgery; falsely.
countermark: An artificial cavity made in the teeth of horses that haveoutgrown their natural mark, to disguise their age.
countermine: An underground gallery excavated to intercept and destroy themining of an enemy.
counterplot: To oppose, as another plot, by plotting; to attempt tofrustrate, as a stratagem, by stratagem.Every wile had proved abortive, every plot had been counterplotted.De Quinsey.
counterpoint: An opposite point [Obs.] Sir E. Sandys.
counterseal: To seal or ratify with another or others. Shak.
countersign: To sign on the opposite side of (an instrument or writing);hence, to sign in addition to the signature of a principal orsuperior, in order to attest the authenticity of a writing.
counterstand: Resistance; opposition; a stand against.Making counterstand to Robert Guiscard. Longfellow.
counterstock: See Counterfoil.
countless: Incapable of being counted; not ascertainable; innumerable.
coupstick: A stick or switch used among some American Indians in making orcounting a coup.
courage: To inspire with courage. [Obs.]Paul writeth unto Timothy . . . to courage him. Tyndale.
courtly: In the manner of courts; politely; gracefully; elegantly.They can produce nothing so courtly writ. Dryden
courtyard: A court or inclosure attached to a house.
couteau: A knife; a dagger.
couth: Could; was able; knew or known; understood. [Obs.]Above all other one Daniel He loveth, for he couth well Divine, thatnone other couth; To him were all thing couth, As he had it of God'sgrace. Gower.
couvade: A custom, among certain barbarous tribes, that when a womangives birth to a child her husband takes to his bed, as if ill.The world-wide custom of the couvade, where at childbirth the husbandundergoes medical treatment, in many cases being put to bed for days.Tylor.
covenous: See Covinous, and Covin.
covert: Under cover, authority or protection; as, a feme covert, amarried woman who is considered as being under the protection andcontrol of her husband. Covert way, (Fort.) See Covered way, underCovered.
coveter: One who covets.
covey: To brood; to incubate. [Obs.][Tortoises] covey a whole year before they hatch. Holland.
covin: A collusive agreement between two or more persons to prejudicea third.
cowalker: A phantasmic or "astral" body deemed to be separable from thephysical body and capable of acting independently; a doppelgänger.
coward: Borne in the escutcheon with his tail doubled between his legs;-- said of a lion.
cowitch: See Cowhage.
cowled: Wearing a cowl; hooded; as, a cowled monk. "That cowledchurchman." Emerson.
coxcombly: like a coxcomb. [Obs.] "You coxcombly ass, you!" Beau & Fl.
coxswain: See Cockswain.
coyly: In a coy manner; with reserve.
cozier: See Cosier.
crabfaced: Having a sour, disagreeable countenance. Beau & Fl.
cracknel: A hard brittle cake or biscuit. Spenser.
craftsmanship: The work of a craftsman.
crang: See Krang.
craniometer: An instrument for measuring the size of skulls.
cranioscopist: One skilled in, or who practices, cranioscopy.It was found of equal dimension in a literary man whose skull puzziedthe cranioscopists. Coleridge.
crannied: Having crannies, chinks, or fissures; as, a crannied wall.Tennyson.
crastination: Procrastination; a putting off till to-morrow. [Obs.]
cravat: A neckcloth; a piece of silk, fine muslin, or other cloth, wornby men about the neck.While his wig was combed and his cravat tied. Macualay.
crave: To desire strongly; to feel an insatiable longing; as, acraving appetite.Once one may crave for love. Suckling.
creaking: A harsh grating or squeaking sound, or the act of making such asound.Start not at the creaking of the door. Longfellow.
creaser: A tool for making the band impression distinct on the back.Knight.
create: Created; composed; begotte. [Obs.]Hearts create of duty and zeal. Shak.
creatorship: State or condition of a creator.
crebrous: Frequent; numerous. [Obs.] Goodwin.
credibly: In a manner inducing belief; as, I have been credibly informedof the event.
cremasteric: Of or pertaining to the cremaster; as, the cremasteric artery.
crenature: A rounded tooth or notch of a crenate leaf, or any part that iscrenate; -- called also crenelle.
crepitate: To make a series of small, sharp, rapidly repeated explosionsor sounds, as salt in fire; to crackle; to snap.
crescentic: Crescent-shaped. "Crescentic lobes." R. Owen.
cresting: An ornamental finish on the top of a wall or ridge of a roof.
cretinous: Having the characteristics of a cretin. "Cretinousstupefaction." Ruskin.
crevis: The crawfish. [Prov. Eng.]
cribration: The act or process of separating the finer parts of drugs fromthe coarser by sifting.
cribriform: Resembling, or having the form of, a sieve; pierced with hokes;as, the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone; a cribriform compress.Cribriform cells (Bot.), those which have here and there oblique ortransverse sieve plates, or places perforated with many holes.
cricketer: One who plays at cricket.
criminalist: One versed in criminal law. [R.]
criminology: A treatise on crime or the criminal population.-- Crim`i*nol"o*gist (-j, n.
crimosin: See Crimson.
crimp: To cause to contract, or to render more crisp, as the flesh ofa fish, by gashing it, when living, with a knife; as, to crimp skate,etc. Crimping house, a low lodging house, into which men are decoyedand plied with drink, to induce them to ship or enlist as sailors orsoldiers.-- Crimping iron. (a) An iron instrument for crimping and curlingthe hair. (b) A crimping machine.-- Crimping machine, a machine with fluted rollers or with dies, forcrimping ruffles leather, iron, etc.-- Crimping pin, an instrument for crimping or puckering the borderof a lady's cap.
crimper: One who, or that which, crimps; as
crimson: A deep red color tinged with blue; also, red color in general.Theugh jour be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow; thoughthey be red like crimson, they shall be as wool. Is. i. 18.A maid jet rosed over with the virgin crimson of modesty. Shak.
cringer: One who cringes.
crippling: Spars or timbers set up as a support against the side of abuilding.
crispature: The state of being crispate.
criticaster: A contemptible or vicious critic.The rancorous and reptile crew of poeticules, who decompose intocriticasters. Swinburne.
crochet: A kind of knitting done by means of a hooked needle, withworsted, silk, or cotton; crochet work. Commonly used adjectively.Crochet hook, Crochet needle, a small hook, or a hooked needle (oftenof bone), used in crochet work.
crocoisite: Same as Crocoite.
croissante: Terminated with crescent; -- said of a cross the ends of whichare so terminated.
crook: A small tube, usually curved, applied to a trumpet, horn, etc.,to change its pitch or key.
croquette: A ball of minced meat, fowl, rice, or other ingredients, highlyseasoned, and fried.
crosswise: In the form of a cross; across; transversely. Longfellow.
crotalaria: A genus of leguminous plants; rattlebox.
crotaline: Resembling, or pertaining to, the Crotalidae, or Rattlesnakefamily.
crotalum: A kind of castanet used by the Corybantes.
crotalus: A genus of poisonous serpents, including the rattlesnakes.
croton: A genus of euphorbiaceous plants belonging to tropicalcountries. Croton oil (Med.), a viscid, acrid, brownish yellow oilobtained from the seeds of Croton Tiglium, a small tree of the EastIndies. It is a most powerful drastic cathartic, and is usedexternally as a pustulant.
crotonic: Of or pertaining to, or derived from, a plant of the genusCroton, or from croton oil. Crotonic acid (Chem.), a whitecrystalline organic acid, C3H5.CO2H, of the ethylene, or acrylic acidseries. It was so named because formerly supposed to exist in crotonoil. Also, any acid metameric with crotonic acid proper.
crotonine: A supposed alkaloid obtained from croton oil by boiling it withwater and magnesia, since found to be merely a magnesia soap of theoil. Watts.
crowbar: A bar of iron sharpened at one end, and used as a lever.
crowfoot: The genus Ranunculus, of many species; some are common weeds,others are flowering plants of considerable beauty.
croys: See Cross, n. [Obs.] Chaucer.
croziered: Crosiered.
crucifer: Any plant of the order Cruciferæ.
cruels: Glandular scrofulous swellings in the neck.
cruentous: Bloody; cruentate. [Obs.]
crusade: To engage in a crusade; to attack in a zealous or hot-headedmanner. "Cease crusading against sense." M. Green.
crustaceological: Pertaining to crustaceology.
crusty: Having a hard exterior, or a short, rough manner, though kindat heart; snappish; peevish; surly.Thou crusty batch of nature, what's the news Shak.
cruzado: A coin. See Crusado.
cryal: The heron [Obs.] Ainsworth.
cryolite: A fluoride of sodium and aluminum, found in Greenland, in whitecleavable masses; -- used as a source of soda and alumina.
cryometer: A thermometer for the measurement of low temperatures, esp.such an instrument containing alcohol or some other liquid of a lowerfreezing point than mercury.
cryptographer: One who writes in cipher, or secret characters.
crystalloid: Crystal-like; transparent like crystal.
cubital: A sleeve covering the arm from the elbow to the hand. Crabb.
cubless: Having no cubs. Byron.
cuckoldry: The state of being a cuckold; the practice of making cuckolds.
cudgel: A staff used in cudgel play, shorter than the quarterstaff, andwielded with one hand; hence, any heavy stick used as a weapon.He getteth him a grievous crabtree cudgel and . . . falls to ratingof them as if they were dogs. Bunyan.Cudgel play, a fight or sportive contest with cudgels.-- To cross the cudgels, to forbear or give up the contest; -- aphrase borrowed from the practice of cudgel players, who lay onecudgel over another when the contest is ended.-- To take up cudgels for, to engage in a contest in behalf of (someone or something).
culinarily: In the manner of a kitchen; in connection with a kitchen orcooking.
culler: One who piks or chooses; esp., an inspector who select waressuitable for market.
culling: Anything separated or selected from a mass.
culminal: Pertaining to a culmen.
culrage: Smartweed (Polygonum Hydropiper).
cultirostres: A tribe of wading birds including the stork, heron, crane, etc.
cultriform: Shaped like a pruning knife; cultrate.
culture: To cultivate; to educate.They came . . . into places well inhabited and cultured. Usher.
culverin: A long cannon of the 16th century, usually an 18-pounder withserpent-shaped handles.Trump, and drum, and roaring culverin. Mac
cun: To con (a ship). [Obs.]
cund: To con (a ship). [Obs.]
curable: Capable of being cured; admitting remedy. "Curable diseases."Harvey.-- Cur"a*ble*ness, n.-- Cur`a*bly, adv.
curiously: In a curious manner.
cursoriness: The quality of being cursory; superficial performance; as,cursoriness of view.
curvedness: The state of being curved.
customary: Holding or held by custom; as, customary tenants; customaryservice or estate.
custos: A keeper; a custodian; a superintendent. [Obs.] Custosrotulorum (r Etym
cute: Clever; sharp; shrewd; ingenious; cunning. [Colloq.]
cutlass: A short, heavy, curving sword, used in the navy. See Curtal ax.Cutlass fish, (Zoöl.), a peculiar, long, thin, marine fish (Trichiruslepturus) of the southern United States and West Indies; -- calledalso saber fish, silver eel, and, improperly, swordfish.
cutler: One who makes or deals in cutlery, or knives and other cuttinginstruments.
cyamelide: A white amorphous substance, regarded as a polymericmodification of isocyanic acid.
cyanuric: Pertaining to, or derived from, cyanic and uric acids.
cyclamen: A genus of plants of the Primrose family, having depressedrounded corms, and pretty nodding flowers with the petals so reflexedas to point upwards, whence it is called rabbit's ears. It is alsocalled sow bread, because hogs are said to eat the corms.
cyclop: See Note under Cyclops, 1.
cyclops: One of a race of giants, sons of Neptune and Amphitrite, havingbut one eye, and that in the middle of the forehead. They were fabledto inhabit Sicily, and to assist in the workshops of Vulcan, underMt. Etna.
cydonin: A peculiar mucilaginous substance extracted from the seeds ofthe quince (Cydonia vulgaris), and regarded as a variety of amylose.
cylindroid: A certain surface of the third degree, described by a movingstraight line; -- used to illustrate the motions of a rigid body andalso the forces acting on the body.
cyon: See Cion, and Scion.
cyprus: A thin, transparent stuff, the same as, or corresponding to,crape. It was either white or black, the latter being most common,and used for mourning. [Obs.]Lawn as white as driven snow, Cyprus black as e'er was crow. Shak.
cypruslawn: Same as Cyprus. Milton.
cyrenian: Pertaining to Cyrene, in Africa; Cyrenaic.
cystoidea: Same as Cystidea.
cytoblastema: See Protoplasm.
cytoplasm: The substance of the body of a cell, as distinguished from thekaryoplasma, or substance of the nucleus.-- Cy`to*plas"mic (-pl, a.
czarevna: The title of the wife of the czarowitz.
dabber: That with which one dabs; hence, a pad or other device used byprinters, engravers, etc., as for dabbing type or engraved plateswith ink.
dacoity: The practice of gang robbery in India; robbery committed bydacoits.
dactylioglyphy: The art or process of gem engraving.
dade: To hold up by leading strings or by the hand, as a child whilehe toddles. [Obs.]Little children when they learn to go By painful mothers daded to andfro. Drayton.
dagges: An ornamental cutting of the edges of garments, introducedabout a. d. 1346, according to the Chronicles of St Albans. [Obs.]Halliwell.
daguerreotype: One who takes daguerreotypes.
dahlia: A genus of plants native to Mexico and Central America, of theorder Compositæ; also, any plant or flower of the genus. The numerousvarieties of cultivated dahlias bear conspicuous flowers which differin color.
daily: Happening, or belonging to, each successive day; diurnal; as,daily labor; a daily bulletin.Give us this day our daily bread. Matt. vi. 11.Bunyan has told us . . . that in New England his dream was the dailysubject of the conversation of thousands. Macaulay.
daint: Something of exquisite taste; a dainty. [Obs.] -- a.
daira: Any of several valuable estates of the Egyptian khedive or hisfamily. The most important are the Da"i*ra Sa"ni*eh, or Sa"ni*yeh,and the Da"i*ra Khas"sa, administered by the khedive's Europeanbondholders, and known collectively as the Daira, or the Dairaestates.
dairyman: A man who keeps or takes care of a dairy.
damianist: A follower of Damian, patriarch of Alexandria in the 6thcentury, who held heretical opinions on the doctrine of the HolyTrinity.
damnability: The quality of being damnable; damnableness. Sir T. More.
damsel: An attachment to a millstone spindle for shaking the hoppe
dandify: To cause to resemble a dandy; to make dandyish.
dangerless: Free from danger. [R.]
dangle: To hang loosely, or with a swinging or jerking motion.he'd rather on a gibbet dangle Than miss his dear delight, towrangle. Hudibras.From her lifted hand Dangled a length of ribbon. Tennyson.To dangle about or after, to hang upon importunately; to court thefavor of; to beset.The Presbyterians, and other fanatics that dangle after them, arewell inclined to pull down the present establishment. Swift.
darby: A plasterer's float, having two handles; -- used in smoothingceilings, etc.
darkish: Somewhat dark; dusky.
darling: One dearly beloved; a favorite.And can do naught but wail her darling's loss. Shak.
daswe: See Dasewe [Obs.] Chaucer.
davyne: A variety of nephelite from Vesuvius.
dawdler: One who wastes time in trifling employments; an idler; atrifler.
daysman: An umpire or arbiter; a mediator.Neither is there any daysman betwixt us. Job ix. 33.
daywoman: A dairymaid. [Obs.]
deaconship: The office or ministry of a deacon or deaconess.
deadener: One who, or that which, deadens or checks.
deadish: Somewhat dead, dull, or lifeless; deathlike.The lips put on a deadish paleness. A. Stafford.
deal: The division of a piece of timber made by sawing; a board orplank; particularly, a board or plank of fir or pine above seveninches in width, and exceeding six feet in length. If narrower thanthis, it is called a batten; if shorter, a deal end.
deauration: Act of gilding. [Obs.]
debark: To go ashore from a ship or boat; to disembark; to put ashore.
debarment: Hindrance from approach; exclusion.
debatable: Liable to be debated; disputable; subject to controversy orcontention; open to question or dispute; as, a debatable question.The Debatable Land or Ground, a tract of land between the Esk and theSark, claimed by both England and Scotland; the Batable Ground.
debaucher: One who debauches or corrupts others; especially, a seducer tolewdness.
debtor: One who owes a debt; one who is indebted; -- correlative tocreditor.[I 'll] bring your latter hazard back again, And thankfully restdebtor for the first. Shak.In Athens an insolvent debtor became slave to his creditor. Mitford.Debtors for our lives to you. Tennyson.
debuscope: A modification of the kaleidoscope; -- used to reflect imagesso as to form beautiful designs.
decampment: Departure from a camp; a marching off.
decanal: Pertaining to a dean or deanery.His rectorial as well as decanal residence. Churton.Decanal side, the side of the choir on which the dean's tall isplaced.-- Decanal stall, the stall allotted to the dean in the choir, onthe right or south side of the chancel. Shipley.
deceased: Passed away; dead; gone. The deceased, the dead person.
deceitfully: With intent to deceive.
decembrist: One of those who conspired for constitutional governmentagainst the Emperor Nicholas on his accession to the throne at thedeath of Alexander I., in December, 1825; -- called also Dekabrist.
decempedal: Having ten feet; decapodal. [R.] Bailey.
decemviral: Pertaining to the decemvirs in Rome.
decerpt: Plucked off or away. [Obs.]
dechristianize: To turn from, or divest of, Christianity.
decide: To determine; to form a definite opinion; to come to aconclusion; to give decision; as, the court decided in favor of thedefendant.Who shall decide, when doctors disagree Pope.
deciduata: A group of Mammalia in which a decidua is thrown off with, orafter, the fetus, as in the human species.
decimally: By tens; by means of decimals.
deckel: Same as Deckle.
decomposed: Separated or broken up; -- said of the crest of birds when thefeathers are divergent.
decorement: Ornament. [Obs.]
decoy: To lead into danger by artifice; to lure into a net or snare;to entrap; to insnare; to allure; to entice; as, to decoy troops intoan ambush; to decoy ducks into a net.Did to a lonely cot his steps decoy. Thomson.E'en while fashion's brightest arts decoy, The heart, distrusting,asks if this be joy. Goldsmith.
decrial: A crying down; a clamorous censure; condemnation by censure.
dedecorate: To bring to shame; to disgrace. [Obs.] Bailey.
dedicatee: One to whom a thing is dedicated; -- correlative to dedicator.
deducement: Inference; deduction; thing deduced. [R.] Dryden.
deductor: The pilot whale or blackfish.
defamer: One who defames; a slanderer; a detractor; a calumniator.
defatigation: Weariness; fatigue. [R.] Bacon.
defeatured: Changed in features; deformed. [R.]Features when defeatured in the . . . way I have described. DeQuincey.
defecation: The act or process of voiding excrement.
defectible: Liable to defect; imperfect. [R.] "A defectible understanding."Jer. Taylor.
defendee: One who is defended. [R. & Ludicrous]
defense: To furnish with defenses; to fortify. [Obs.] [Written alsodefence.]Better manned and more strongly defensed. Hales.
deferential: Expressing deference; accustomed to defer.
deferment: The act of delaying; postponement. [R.]My grief, joined with the instant business, Begs a deferment.Suckling.
defiguration: Disfiguration; mutilation. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
defilade: To raise, as a rampart, so as to shelter interior workscommanded from some higher point.
deflectable: Capable of being deflected.
deflourer: One who deflours; a ravisher.
defly: Deftly. [Obs.] Spenser.
deforceor: Same as Deforciant. [Obs.]
deforest: To clear of forests; to dis U. S. Agric. Reports.
deforser: A deforciant. [Obs.] Blount.
defraudation: The act of defrauding; a taking by fraud. [R.] Sir T. Browne.
degenerateness: Degeneracy.
degenerously: Basely. [Obs.]
degu: A small South American rodent (Octodon Cumingii), of the familyOctodontidæ.
dehiscent: Characterized by dehiscence; opening in some definite way, asthe capsule of a plant.
deinosaur: See Dinosaur.
deipnosophist: One of an ancient sect of philosophers, who cultivated learnedconversation at meals.
delawares: A tribe of Indians formerly inhabiting the valley of theDelaware River, but now mostly located in the Indian Territory.
dele: Erase; remove; -- a direction to cancel something which hasbeen put in type; usually expressed by a peculiar form of d, thus
delectable: Highly pleasing; delightful.Delectable both to behold and taste. Milton.-- De*lec"ta*ble*ness, n.-- De*lec"ta*bly, adv.
delenda: Things to be erased or blotted out.
delete: To blot out; to erase; to expunge; to dele; to omit.I have, therefore, . . . inserted eleven stanzas which do not appearin Sir Walter Scott's version, and have deleted eight. Aytoun.
deletory: That which blots out. [Obs.] "A deletory of sin." Jer. Taylor.
delf: A mine; a quarry; a pit dug; a ditch. [Written also delft, anddelve.] [Obs.]The delfts would be so flown with waters, that no gins or machinescould . . . keep them dry. Ray.
delibrate: To strip off the bark; to peel. [Obs.] Ash.
deligation: A binding up; a bandaging. Wiseman.
delightless: Void of delight. Thomson.
delightsome: Very pleasing; delightful. "Delightsome vigor." Grew.Ye shall be a delightsome land, . . . saith the Lord. Mal. iii. 12.-- De*light"some*ly, adv.-- De*light"some*ness, n.
delilah: The mistress of Samson, who betrayed him (Judges xvi.); hence,a harlot; a temptress.Other Delilahs on a smaller scale Burns met with during his Dumfriessojourn. J. C. Shairp.
delineament: Delineation; sketch. Dr. H. More.
delitescency: Concealment; seclusion.The mental organization of the novelist must be characterized, tospeak craniologically, by an extraordinary development of the passionfor delitescency. Sir W. Scott.
deltaic: Relating to, or like, a delta.
deltic: Deltaic.
demeanure: Behavior. [Obs.] Spenser.
demibastion: A half bastion, or that part of a bastion consisting of oneface and one flank.
demigorge: Half the gorge, or entrance into a bastion, taken from theangle of the flank to the center of the bastion.
demiman: A half man. [R.] Knolles.
demoiselle: The Numidian crane (Antropoides virgo); -- so called on accountof the grace and symmetry of its form and movements.
demonetize: To deprive of current value; to withdraw from use, as money.They [gold mohurs] have been completely demonetized by the [EastIndia] Company. R. Cobden.
demonstratively: In a manner fitted to demonstrate; clearly; convincingly;forcibly.
dempne: To damn; to condemn. [Obs.] Chaucer.
demulce: To soothe; to mollify; to pacify; to soften. [R.] Sir T. Elyot.
denary: Containing ten; tenfold; proceeding by tens; as, the denary, ordecimal, scale.
dendrite: A stone or mineral on or in which are branching figuresresembling shrubs or trees, produced by a foreign mineral, usually anoxide of manganese, as in the moss agate; also, a crystallizedmineral having an arborescent form, e. g., gold or silver; anarborization.
dendrometer: An instrument to measure the height and diameter of trees.
deniable: Capable of being, or liable to be, denied.
denitration: A disengaging, or removal, of nitric acid.
denize: To make a denizen; to confer the rights of citizenship upon; tonaturalize. [Obs.]There was a private act made for denizing the children of RichardHillStrype.
denominationalist: One imbued with a denominational spirit. The Century.
densely: In a dense, compact manner.
dentation: Formation of teeth; toothed form. [R.]How did it [a bill] get its barb, its dentation Paley.
dented: Indented; impressed with little hollows.
dentine: The dense calcified substance of which teeth are largelycomposed. It contains less animal matter than bone, and in the teethof man is situated beneath the enamel.
dentition: The system of teeth peculiar to an animal.
dentolingual: Dentilingual.
deoxygenate: To deoxidize. [Obs.]
depertible: Divisible. [Obs.] Bacon.
dephlogisticcate: To deprive of phlogiston, or the supposed principle ofinflammability. Priestley. Dephlogisticated air, oxygen gas; -- socalled by Dr. Priestly and others of his time.-- De`phlo*gis`ti*ca"tion, n.
depict: Depicted. Lydgate.
deplanate: Flattened; made level or even.
deplumation: A disease of the eyelids, attended with loss of the eyelashes.Thomas.
depolish: To remove the polish or glaze from.
depolishing: The process of removing the vitreous glaze from porcelain,leaving the dull luster of the surface of ivory porcelian. Knight.
depopulator: One who depopulates; a dispeopler.
depositure: The act of depositing; deposition. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
depper: Deeper. [Obs.] Chaucer.
depraver: One who deprave or corrupts.
depress: To reduce (an equation) in a lower degree. To depress the pole(Naut.), to cause the sidereal pole to appear lower or nearer thehorizon, as by sailing toward the equator.
depressor: A muscle that depresses or tends to draw down a part. Depressornerve (Physiol.), a nerve which lowers the activity of an organ; as,the depressor nerve of the heart.
depudicate: To deflour; to dishonor. [Obs.]
deracinate: To pluck up by the roots; to extirpate. [R.]While that the colter rusts That should deracinate such savagery.Shak.
deranger: One who deranges.
dere: To hurt; to harm; to injure. [Obs.] Chaucer.
derisive: Expressing, serving for, or characterized by, derision."Derisive taunts." Pope.-- De*ri"sive*ly, adv.-- De*ri"sive*ness, n.
derma: See Dermis.
dermic: Pertaining to the dermis; dermal.Underneath each nail the deep or dermic layer of the integument ispeculiarly modified. Huxley.Dermic remedies (Med.), such as act through the skin.
derogation: An alteration of, or subtraction from, a contract for a sale ofstocks.
derotremata: The tribe of aquatic Amphibia which includes Amphiuma,Menopoma, etc. They have permanent gill openings, but no externalgills; -- called also Cryptobranchiata. [Written also Derotrema.]
desertless: Without desert. [R.]
deshabille: An undress; a careless toilet.
desiccatory: Desiccative.
designedly: By design; purposely; intentionally; -- opposed toaccidentally, ignorantly, or inadvertently.
designful: Full of design; scheming. [R.] -- De*sign"ful*ness, n. [R.]Barrow.
designing: Intriguing; artful; scheming; as, a designing man.
desirably: In a desirable manner.
desk: To shut up, as in a desk; to treasure.
deskwork: Work done at a desk, as by a clerk or writer. Tennyson.
desmodont: A member of a group of South American blood-sucking bats, ofthe genera Desmodus and Diphylla. See Vampire.
desmomyaria: The division of Tunicata which includes the Salpæ. See Salpa.
despairer: One who despairs.
despisement: A despising. [R.] Holland.
despiser: One who despises; a contemner; a scorner.
despoiler: One who despoils.
despumation: The act of throwing up froth or scum; separation of the scum orimpurities from liquids; scumming; clarification.
destemper: A kind of painting. See Distemper.
destrie: To destroy. [Obs.] Chaucer.
destructively: In a destructive manner.
desuete: Disused; out of use. [R.]
determinator: One who determines. [R.] Sir T. Browne.
deterrent: Serving to deter. "The deterrent principle." E. Davis.
detestate: To detest. [Obs.] Udall.
detester: One who detes
dethronize: To dethrone or unthrone. [Obs.] Cotgrave.
detruncation: The act of lopping or cutting off, as the head from the body.
deuce: Two; a card or a die with two spots; as, the deuce of hearts.
deuteronomist: The writer of Deuteronomy.
deutohydroguret: A compound containing in the molecule two atoms of hydrogenunited with some other element or radical. [Obs.]
devastator: One who, or that which, devastates. Emerson.
develop: To change the form of, as of an algebraic expression, byexecuting certain indicated operations without changing the value.
deviant: Deviating. [Obs.]
deviator: One who, or that which, deviates.
devicefully: In a deviceful manner. [R.]
deviling: A young devil. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.
devitation: An avoiding or escaping; also, a warning. [Obs.] Bailey.
devoutness: Quality or state of being devout.
dewret: To ret or rot by the process called dewretting.
dewworm: See Earthworm.
dextral: Right, as opposed to sinistral, or left. Dextral shell (Zoöl.),a spiral shell the whorls of which turn from left right, or like thehands of a watch when the apex of the spire is toward the eye of theobserver.
dey: A servant who has charge of the dairy; a dairymaid. [Obs.]Chaucer.
diadrom: A complete course or vibration; time of vibration, as of apendulum. [Obs.] Locke.
diaglyph: An intaglio. Mollett.
diallyl: A volatile, pungent, liquid hydrocarbon, C6H10, consisting oftwo allyl radicals, and belonging to the acetylene series.
dialogize: To discourse in dialogue. Fotherby.
dialyzate: The material subjected to dialysis.
diamond: A pointed projection, like a four-sided pyramid, used forornament in lines or groups.
diaphanously: Translucently.
diaphemetric: Relating to the measurement of the tactile sensibility ofparts; as, diaphemetric compasses. Dunglison.
diathermanous: Having the property of transmitting radiant heat; diathermal; -- opposed to athermanous.
dice: Small cubes used in gaming or in determining by chance; also,the game played with dice. See Die, n. Dice coal, a kind of coaleasily splitting into cubical fragments. Brande & C.
dicentra: A genus of herbaceous plants, with racemes of two-spurred orheart-shaped flowers, including the Dutchman's breeches, and the moreshowy Bleeding heart (D. spectabilis). [Corruptly written dielytra.]
dichroiscope: Same as Dichroscope.
diction: Choice of words for the expression of ideas; the construction,disposition, and application of words in discourse, with regard toclearness, accuracy, variety, etc.; mode of expression; language; as,the diction of Chaucer's poems.His diction blazes up into a sudden explosion of prophetic grandeur.De Quincey.
dictyogen: A plant with netveined leaves, and monocotyledonous embryos,belonging to the class Dictyogenæ, proposed by Lindley for the ordersDioscoreaceæ, Smilaceæ, Trilliaceæ, etc.
didelphia: The subclass of Mammalia which includes the marsupials. SeeMarsupialia.
didelphian: Of or relating to the Didelphia.-- n.
didelphic: Having the uterus double; of or pertaining to the Didelphia.
dido: A shrewd trick; an antic; a caper. To cut a dido, to play atrick; to cut a caper; -- perhaps so called from the trick of Dido,who having bought so much land as a hide would cover, is said to havecut it into thin strips long enough to inclose a spot for a citadel.
diducement: Diduction; separation into distinct parts. Bacon.
dieresis: Same as Diæresis.
dietetist: A physician who applies the rules of dietetics to the cure ofdiseases. Dunglison.
diethylamine: A colorless, volatile, alkaline liquid, NH(C2H5)2, having astrong fishy odor resembling that of herring or sardines. Cf.Methylamine.
differentiation: The act of distinguishing or describing a thing, by giving itsdifferent, or specific difference; exact definition or determination.
difficult: To render difficult; to impede; to perplex. [R.] Sir W. Temple.
diffide: To be distrustful. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.
diffusibility: The quality of being diffusible; capability of being poured orspread out.
diffusiveness: The quality or state of being diffusive or diffuse;extensiveness; expansion; dispersion. Especially of style:Diffuseness; want of conciseness; prolixity.The fault that I find with a modern legend, it its diffusiveness.Addison.
diffusivity: Tendency to become diffused; tendency, as of heat, to becomeequalized by spreading through a conducting medium.
digitorium: A small dumb keyboard used by pianists for exercising thefingers; -- called also dumb piano.
dihedron: A figure with two sides or surfaces. Buchanan.
dijudicant: One who dijudicates. [R.] Wood.
dika: A kind of food, made from the almondlike seeds of the IrvingiaBarteri, much used by natives of the west coast of Africa; -- calledalso dika bread.
dilate: Extensive; expanded. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
dilemma: An argument which presents an antagonist with two or morealternatives, but is equally conclusive against him, whicheveralternative he chooses.
dilettantism: Same as Dilettanteism. F. Harrison.
dilution: The act of diluting, or the state of being diluted. Arbuthnot.
dimethyl: Ethane; -- sometimes so called because regarded as consistingof two methyl radicals. See Ethane.
dimidiate: To represent the half of; to halve.
diminish: To make smaller by a half step; to make (an interval) less thanminor; as, a diminished seventh.
diminuent: Lessening. Bp. Sanderson.
diminute: Small; diminished; diminutive. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor.
dimissory: Sending away; dismissing to another jurisdiction; grantingleave to depart. Letters dimissory (Eccl.), letters given by a bishopdismissing a person who is removing into another diocese, andrecommending him for reception there. Hook.
dimit: To dismiss, let go, or release. [Obs.]
dingy: Soiled; sullied; of a dark or dusky color; dark brown; dirty."Scraps of dingy paper." Macaulay.
dining: from Dine, a.
dinnerly: Of or pertaining to dinner. [R.]The dinnerly officer. Copley.
diocese: The circuit or extent of a bishop's jurisdiction; the districtin which a bishop exercises his ecclesiastical authority.[Frequently, but improperly, spelt diocess.]
dioeciousness: The state or quality of being dioecious.
dionysian: Relating to Dionysius, a monk of the 6th century; as, theDionysian, or Christian, era. Dionysian period, a period of 532years, depending on the cycle of the sun, or 28 years, and the cycleof the moon, or 19 years; -- sometimes called the Greek paschalcycle, or Victorian period.
diorthotic: Relating to the correcting or straightening out of something;corrective.
dioscorea: A genus of plants. See Yam.
diphthongal: Relating or belonging to a diphthong; having the nature of adiphthong.-- Diph*thon"gal*ly, adv.
diphthongization: The act of changing into a diphthong. H. Sweet.
diplex: Pertaining to the sending of two messages in the same directionat the same time. Diplex and contraplex are the two varieties ofduplex.
diplogenic: Partaking of the nature of two bodies; producing twosubstances. Wright.
dipody: Two metrical feet taken together, or included in one measure.Hadley.Trochaic, iambic, and anapestic verses . . . are measured bydipodies. W. W. Goodwin.
dipropyl: One of the hexane paraffins, found in petroleum, consisting oftwo propyl radicals. See Hexane.
dipsomaniac: One who has an irrepressible desire for alcoholic drinks.
dipsosis: Excessive thirst produced by disease.
dipterygian: Having two dorsal fins; -- said of certain fishes.
direction: The pointing of a piece with reference to an imaginary verticalaxis; -- distinguished from elevation. The direction is given whenthe plane of sight passes through the object. Wilhelm.
directorship: The condition or office of a director; directorate.
dirge: A piece of music of a mournful character, to accompany funeralrites; a funeral hymn.The raven croaked, and hollow shrieks of owls Sung dirges at herfuneral. Ford.
dirigent: Directing. Baxter.
dis: The god Pluto. Shak.
disable: Lacking ability; unable. [Obs.] "Our disable and unactiveforce." Daniel.
disaffectionate: Not disposed to affection; unfriendly; disaffected. [R.]Blount.
disaffirm: To refuse to confirm; to annul, as a judicial decision, by acontrary judgment of a superior tribunal.
disagreeance: Disagreement. [Obs.]
disanoint: To invalidate the consecration of; as, to disanoint a king.[Obs.] Milton.
disapparel: To disrobe; to strip of apparel; to make naked.Drink disapparels the soul. Junius (1635).
disappropriation: The act of disappropriating.
disassimilation: The decomposition of complex substances, within the organism,into simpler ones suitable only for excretion, with evolution ofenergy, -- a normal nutritional process the reverse of assimilation;downward metabolism.The breaking down of already existing chemical compounds into simplerones, sometimes called disassimilation. Martin.
disasterly: Disastrously. [Obs.] Drayton.
disaventure: Misfortune. [Obs.] Spenser.
disbranch: To divest of a branch or branches; to tear off. Shak.
disc: A flat round plate; (Biol.)
discal: Pertaining to, or resembling, a disk; as, discal cells.
discipless: A female disciple. [Obs.]
disclamation: A disavowing or disowning. Bp. Hall.
disclose: Disclosure. [Obs.] Shak. Young.
discoast: To depart; to quit the coast (that is, the side or border) ofanything; to be separated. [Obs.]As far as heaven and earth discoasted lie. G. Fletcher.To discoast from the plain and simple way of speech. Barrow.
discoidal: Disk-shaped; discoid.
discommodity: Disadvantage; inconvenience. Bacon.
discompany: To free from company; to dissociate. [R.]It she be alone now, and discompanied. B. Jonson.
discomposed: Disordered; disturbed; disquieted.-- Dis`com*pos"ed*ly, adv.-- Dis`com*pos"ed*ness, n.
disconformable: Not conformable.Disconformable in religion from us. Stow (1603).
discontinue: To interrupt the continuance of; to intermit, as a practice orhabit; to put an end to; to cause to cease; to cease using, to stop;to leave off.Set up their conventicles again, which had been discontinued. Bp.Burnet.I have discontinued school Above a twelvemonth. Shak.Taught the Greek tongue, discontinued before in these parts the spaceof seven hundred years. Daniel.They modify and discriminate the voice, without appearing todiscontinue it. Holder.
discophora: A division of acalephs or jellyfishes, including most of thelarge disklike species.-- Dis*coph"o*rous, a.
discourager: One who discourages.The promoter of truth and the discourager of error. Sir G. C. Lewis.
disembark: To remove from on board a vessel; to put on shore; to land; todebark; as, the general disembarked the troops.
disembodied: Divested of a body; ceased to be corporal; incorporeal.The disembodied spirits of the dead. Bryant.
disemployment: The state of being disemployed, or deprived of employment.This glut of leisure and disemployment. Jer. Taylor.
disencouragement: Discouragement. [Obs.] Spectator.
disencrese: To decrease. [Obs.] Chaucer.
disengage: To release from that with which anything is engaged, engrossed,involved, or entangled; to extricate; to detach; to set free; toliberate; to clear; as, to disengage one from a party, from broilsand controversies, from an oath, promise, or occupation; to disengagethe affections a favorite pursuit, the mind from study.To disengage him and the kingdom, great sums were to be borrowed.Milton.Caloric and light must be disengaged during the process. Transl. ofLavoisier.
disennoble: To deprive of that which ennobles; to degrade.An unworthy behavior degrades and disennobles a man. Guardian.
disenthrall: To release from thralldom or slavery; to give freedom to; todisinthrall. [Written also disenthral.] Milton.
disexercise: To deprive of exercise; to leave untrained. [Obs.]By disexercising and blunting our abilities. Milton.
disfriar: To depose or withdraw from the condition of a friar. [Obs.]Many did quickly unnun and disfriar themselves. Fuller.
disgage: To free from a gage or pledge; to disengage. [Obs.] Holland.
disgallant: To deprive of gallantry. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
disgorge: To vomit forth what anything contains; to discharge; to makerestitution.See where it flows, disgorging at seven mouths Into the sea. Milton.
disgregate: To disperse; to scatter; -- opposite of congregate. [Obs.]
dishabilitate: To disqualify. [R.]
dishcloth: A cloth used for washing dishes.
dishearten: To discourage; to deprive of courage and hope; to depress thespirits of; to deject.Regiments . . . utterly disorganized and disheartened. Macaulay.
disheritor: One who puts another out of his inheritance.
dishorse: To dismount. Tennyson.
disillusionment: The act of freeing from an illusion, or the state of beingfreed therefrom.
disimprove: To make worse; -- the opposite of improve. [R.] Jer. Taylor.
disincorporate: Separated from, or not included in, a corporation;disincorporated. Bacon.
disinteress: To deprive or rid of interest in, or regard for; to disengage.[Obs.]
disinterested: Not influenced by regard to personal interest or advantage;free from selfish motive; having no relation of interest or feeling;not biased or prejudiced; as, a disinterested decision or judge.The happiness of disinterested sacrifices. Channing.
disme: A tenth; a tenth part; a tithe. Ayliffe.
dismortgage: To redeem from mortgage. [Obs.] Howell.
disobediency: Disobedience.
disobliger: One who disobliges.
disorderly: Offensive to good morals and public decency; notoriouslyoffensive; as, a disorderly house.
disoxidation: Deoxidation. [R.]
disoxygenate: To deprive of oxygen; to deoxidize. [R.]
dispassioned: Free from passion; dispassionate. [R.] "Dispassioned men."Donne.
dispauperize: To free a state of pauperism, or from paupers. J. S. Mill.
dispend: To spend; to lay out; to expend. [Obs.] Spenser.Able to dispend yearly twenty pounds and above. Fuller.
displayed: With wings expanded; -- said of a bird of pray, esp. an eagle.
displode: To discharge; to explode.In posture to displode their second tire Of thunder. Milton.
displume: To strip of, or as of, a plume, or plumes; to deprive ofdecoration; to dishonor; to degrade.Displumed, degraded, and metamorphosed. Burke.
dispraisable: Blamable. [R.]
disprofess: To renounce the profession or pursuit of.His arms, which he had vowed to disprofess. Spenser.
dispunge: To expunge; to erase. [Obs.]
dispurse: To disburse. [Obs.] Shak.
disputative: Disposed to dispute; inclined to cavil or to reason inopposition; as, a disputative temper. I. Watts.
disrealize: To divest of reality; to make uncertain. [Obs.] Udall.
disregardfully: Negligently; heedlessly.
disreputable: Not reputable; of bad repute; not in esteem; dishonorable;disgracing the reputation; tending to bring into disesteem; as, it isdisreputable to associate familiarly with the mean, the lewd, and theprofane.Why should you think that conduct disreputable in priests which youprobably consider as laudable in yourself Bp. Watson.
disroof: To unroof. [R.] Carlyle.
disrudder: To deprive of the rudder, as a ship.
disseat: To unseat. [R.] Shak.
disseize: To deprive of seizin or possession; to dispossess or oustwrongfully (one in freehold possession of land); -- followed by of;as, to disseize a tenant of his freehold. [Written also disseise.]Which savage beasts strive as eagerly to keep and hold those goldenmines, as the Arimaspians to disseize them thereof. Holland.
dissembling: That dissembles; hypocritical; false.-- Dis*sem"bling*ly, adv.
disseminated: Occurring in small portions scattered through some othersubstance.
dissepiment: One of the partitions which divide a compound ovary into cells.
dissertate: To deal in dissertation; to write dissertations; to discourse.[R.] J. Foster.
dissimilate: To render dissimilar.
dissimule: To dissemble. [Obs.] Chaucer.
dissocialize: To render unsocial.
dissociative: Tending or leading to dissociation.
dissolver: One who, or that which, has power to dissolve or dissipate.Thou kind dissolver of encroaching care. Otway.
distantial: Distant. [Obs.]More distantial from the eye. W. Montagu.
distasteive: Tending to excite distaste. [Obs.] -- n.
disthene: Cyanite or kyanite; -- so called in allusion to its unequalhardness in two different directions. See Cyanite.
distractible: Capable of being drawn aside or distracted.
distributer: One who, or that which, distributes or deals out anything; adispenser. Addison.
distributing: That distributes; dealing out. Distributing past office, anoffice where the mails for a large district are collected to beassorted according to their destination and forwarded.
distributionist: A distributer. [R.] Dickens.
distriction: Sudden display; flash; glitter. [R.]A smile . . . breaks out with the brightest distriction. Collier.
disvantageous: Disadvantageous. [Obs.] "Disadvantageous ground." Drayton.
disworship: To refuse to worship; to treat as unworthy. [Obs.] Sir T. More.
ditroite: An igneous rock composed of orthoclase, elæolite, and sodalite.
ditty: To sing; to warble a little tune.Beasts fain would sing; birds ditty to their notes. Herbert.
diuresis: Free excretion of urine.
diureticalness: The quality of being diuretical; diuretic property.
divaricately: With divarication.
divarication: A divergence of lines of color sculpture, or of fibers atdifferent angles.
diver: Any bird of certain genera, as Urinator (formerly Colymbus), orthe allied genus Colymbus, or Podiceps, remarkable for their agilityin diving.
divestment: The act of divesting. [R.]
divet: See Divot.
dividingly: By division.
divisional: That divides; pas, a divisional line; a divisional general; adivisional surgeon of police. Divisional planes (Geol.), planes ofseparation between rock masses. They include joints.
divisionary: Divisional.
divorcer: The person or cause that produces or effects a divorce.Drummond.
divorcible: Divorceable. Milton.
dizzard: A blockhead. [Obs.] [Written also dizard, and disard.] --Diz"zard*ly, adv. [Obs.]
doctrinable: Of the nature of, or constituting, doctrine. [Obs.] Sir P.Sidney.
dodecasyllable: A word consisting of twelve syllables.
dodman: Any shellfish which casts its shell, as a lobster. [Prov. Eng.]
doe: A female deer or antelope; specifically, the female of thefallow deer, of which the male is called a buck. Also applied to thefemale of other animals, as the rabbit. See the Note under Buck.
dogmatism: The manner or character of a dogmatist; arrogance orpositiveness in stating opinion.The self-importance of his demeanor, and the dogmatism of hisconversation. Sir W. Scott.
dolent: Sorrowful. [Obs.] Ford.
dolioform: Barrel-shaped, or like a cask in form.
dolmen: A cromlech. See Cromlech. [Written also tolmen.]
domal: Pertaining to a house. Addison.
domebook: A book said to have been compiled under the direction of KingAlfred. It is supposed to have contained the principal maxims of thecommon law, the penalties for misdemeanors, and the forms of judicialproceedings. Domebook was probably a general name for book ofjudgments. Burrill.
domesticator: One who domesticates.
dominate: To predominate over; to rule; to govern. "A city dominated bythe ax." Dickens.We everywhere meet with Slavonian nations either dominant ordominated. W. Tooke.
donate: To give; to bestow; to present; as, to donate fifty thousanddollars to a college.
donation: The act or contract by which a person voluntarily transfers thetitle to a thing of which be is the owner, from himself to another,without any consideration, as a free gift. Bouvier. Donation party, aparty assembled at the house of some one, as of a clergyman, each onebringing some present. [U.S.] Bartlett.
donatistic: Pertaining to Donatism.
donative: A benefice conferred on a person by the founder or patron,without either presentation or institution by the ordinary, orinduction by his orders. See the Note under Benefice, n.,
donatory: A donee of the crown; one the whom, upon certain condition,escheated property is made over.
donet: Same as Donat. Piers Plowman.
donna: A lady; madam; mistress; -- the title given a lady in Italy.
donnat: See Do-naught. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.
doodlesack: The Scotch bagpipe. [Prov. Eng.]
dooring: The frame of a door. Milton.
doppelganger: A spiritual or ghostly double or counterpart; esp., anapparitional double of a living person; a cowalker.
dormy: Up, or ahead, as many holes as remain to be played; -- said ofa player or side.
dorsal: Pertaining to, or situated near, the back, or dorsum, of ananimal or of one of its parts; notal; tergal; neural; as, the dorsalfin of a fish; the dorsal artery of the tongue; -- opposed toventral.
dorsiventral: Having distinct upper and lower surfaces, as most commonleaves. The leaves of the iris are not dorsiventral.
dosel: Same as Dorsal, n. [R.]
dotal: Pertaining to dower, or a woman's marriage portion;constituting dower, or comprised in it. Garth.
dotery: The acts or speech of a dotard; drivel. [R.]
doubting: That is uncertain; that distrusts or hesitates; having doubts.-- Doubt"ing*ly, adv.
doupe: The carrion crow. [Written also dob.] [Prov. Eng.]
dovelike: Mild as a dove; gentle; pure and lovable. Longfellow.
dowcet: One of the testicles of a hart or stag. [Spelt also doucet.] B.Jonson.
downhaul: A rope to haul down, or to assist in hauling down, a sail; as,a staysail downhaul; a trysail downhaul.
downiness: The quality or state of being downy.
downsitting: The act of sitting down; repose; a resting.Thou knowest my downsitting and my uprising. Ps. cxxxix. 2.
dowst: A dowse. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.
doyly: See Doily.
doze: To slumber; to sleep lightly; to be in a dull or stupefiedcondition, as if half asleep; to be drowsy.If he happened to doze a little, the jolly cobbler waked him.L'Estrange.
dracontine: Belonging to a dragon. Southey.
draffish: Worthless; draffy. Bale.
draffy: Dreggy; waste; worthless.The dregs and draffy part. Beau. & Fl.
dragantine: A mucilage obtained from, or containing, gun tragacanth.
dragonet: A small British marine fish (Callionymuslyra); -- called alsoyellow sculpin, fox, and gowdie.
dragonish: resembling a dragon. Shak.
dragoon: Formerly, a soldier who was taught and armed to serve either onhorseback or on foot; now, a mounted soldier; a cavalry man.
dragoonade: See Dragonnade.
drakestone: A flat stone so thrown along the surface of water as to skipfrom point to point before it sinks; also, the sport of so throwingstones; -- sometimes called ducks and drakes.Internal earthquakes, that, not content with one throe, run alongspasmodically, like boys playing at what is called drakestone. DeQuincey.
dramatize: To compose in the form of the drama; to represent in a drama;to adapt to dramatic representation; as, to dramatize a novel, or anhistorical episode.They dramatized tyranny for public execration. Motley.
draughty: Pertaining to a draught, or current of air; as, a draughtly,comfortless room.
dravida: A race Hindostan, believed to be the original people whooccupied the land before the Hindoo or Aryan invasion.
drawfiling: The process of smooth filing by working the file sidewiseinstead of lengthwise.
drawgear: The means or parts by which cars are connected to be drawn.
drawling: The act of speaking with a drawl; a drawl.-- Drawl"ing*ly, adv. Bacon.
drawplate: A hardened steel plate having a hole, or a gradation of conicalholes, through which wires are drawn to be reduced and elongated.
dreaminess: The state of being dreamy.
dreissena: A genus of bivalve shells of which one species (D. polymorpha)is often so abundant as to be very troublesome in the fresh waters ofEurope.
drent: Drenched; drowned. [Obs.] "Condemned to be drent." Spenser.
drie: To endure. [Obs.]So causeless such drede for to drie. Chaucer.
drimys: A genus of magnoliaceous trees. Drimys aromatica furnishesWinter's bark.
drinkable: Capable of being drunk; suitable for drink; potable. Macaulay.Also used substantively, esp. in the plural. Steele.
droitural: relating to the mere right of property, as distinguished fromthe right of possession; as, droitural actions. [Obs.] Burrill.
droplet: A little drop; a tear. Shak.
drough: of Draw. [Obs.] Chaucer.
droven: of Drive. [Obs.]
drudgingly: In a drudging manner; laboriously.
drugger: A druggist. [Obs.] Burton.
drunkenhead: Drunkenness. [Obs.]
dryness: The state of being dry. See Dry.
dual: Expressing, or consisting of, the number two; belonging to two;as, the dual number of nouns, etc. , in Greek.Here you have one half of our dual truth. Tyndall.
duboisine: An alkaloid obtained from the leaves of an Australian tree(Duboisia myoporoides), and regarded as identical with hyoscyamine.It produces dilation of the pupil of the eye.
ducal: Of or pertaining to a duke.His ducal cap was to be exchanged for a kingly crown. Motley.
duchy: The territory or dominions of a duke; a dukedom.
dueler: One who engages in a duel. [R.] [Written also dueller.] South.
dulcamarin: A glucoside extracted from the bittersweet (Solanum Dulcamara),as a yellow amorphous substance. It probably occasions the compoundtaste. See Bittersweet, 3(a).
dulcified: Sweetened; mollified. Dulcified spirit or spirits, a compoundof alcohol with mineral acids; as, dulcified spirits of niter.
dulcifluous: Flowing sweetly. [R.]
dulse: A seaweed of a reddish brown color, which is sometimes eaten,as in Scotland. The true dulse is Sarcophyllis edulis; the common isRhodymenia. [Written also dillisk.]The crimson leaf of the dulse is seen To blush like a banner bathedin slaughter. Percival.
duly: In a due, fit, or becoming manner; as it (anything) ought tobe; properly; regularly.
dumpish: Dull; stupid; sad; moping; melancholy. " A . . . dumpish andsour life." Lord Herbert.-- Dump"ish*ly, adv.-- Dump"ish*ness, n.
dunce: One backward in book learning; a child or other person dull orweak in intellect; a dullard; a dolt.I never knew this town without dunces of figure. Swift.
dungeon: A close, dark prison, commondonjon or keep of a castle, thesebeing used as prisons.Down with him even into the deep dungeon. Tyndale.Year after year he lay patiently in a dungeon. Macaulay.
dunny: Deaf; stupid.[Prov. Eng.]My old dame Joan is something dunny, and will scarce know how tomanage. Sir W. Scott.
duodecimal: Proceeding in computation by twelves; expressed in the scale oftwelves.-- Du`o*dec"i*mal*ly, adv.
duograph: A picture printed from two half-tone plates made with thescreen set at different angles, and usually printed in two shades ofthe same color or in black and one tint.
duotype: A print made from two half-tone plates made from the samenegative, but etched differently.
dupper: See 2d Dubber.
durably: In a lasting manner; with long continuance.
durio: A fruit tree (D. zibethinus, the only species known) of theIndian Archipelago. It bears the durian.
durometer: An instrument for measuring the degree of hardness; especially,an instrument for testing the relative hardness of steel rails andthe like.
durst: of Dare. See Dare, v. i.
durukuli: A small, nocturnal, South American monkey (Nyctipthecustrivirgatus). [Written also douroucouli.]
duskish: Somewhat dusky. " Duskish smoke." Spenser.-- Dusk"ish*ly, adv.-- Dusk"ish*ness, n.
dynamite: An explosive substance consisting of nitroglycerin absorbed bysome inert, porous solid, as infusorial earth, sawdust, etc. It issafer than nitroglycerin, being less liable to explosion frommoderate shocks, or from spontaneous decomposition.
dysaesthesia: Impairment of any of the senses, esp. of touch.
dystocia: Difficult delivery pr parturition.
eager: Same as Eagre.
eaglewood: A kind of fragrant wood. See Agallochum.
eanling: A lamb just brought forth; a yeanling. Shak.
earnestly: In an earnest manner.
earshot: Reach of the ear; distance at which words may be heard. Dryden.
earthdrake: A mythical monster of the early Anglo-Saxon literature; adragon. W. Spalding.
earthlight: The sunlight reflected from the earth to the moon, by which wesee faintly, when the moon is near the sun (either before or afternew moon), that part of the moon's disk unillumined by directsunlight, or "the old moon in the arms of the new."
earthstar: A curious fungus of the genus Geaster, in which the outercoating splits into the shape of a star, and the inner one forms aball containing the dustlike spores.
earthworm: Any worm of the genus Lumbricus and allied genera, found indamp soil. One of the largest and most abundant species in Europe andAmerica is L. terrestris; many others are known; -- called alsoangleworm and dewworm.
earthy: Without luster, or dull and roughish to the touch; as, anearthy fracture.
eavesdropping: The habit of lurking about dwelling houses, and other placeswhere persons meet fro private intercourse, secretly listening towhat is said, and then tattling it abroad. The offense is indictableat common law. Wharton.
ebb: The European bunting.
ebullioscope: An instrument for observing the boiling point of liquids,especially for determining the alcoholic strength of a mixture by thetemperature at which it boils.
eburin: A composition of dust of ivory or of bone with a cement; --used for imitations of valuable stones and in making moldings, seals,etc. Knight.
ecarte: A game at cards, played usually by two persons, in which theplayers may discard any or all of the cards dealt and receive othersfrom the pack.
ecbatic: Denoting a mere result or consequence, as distinguished fromtelic, which denotes intention or purpose; thus the phrase so that itwas fulfilled," is ecbatic; if rendered "in order that it might be."etc., is telic.
ecboline: An alkaloid constituting the active principle of ergot; -- sonamed from its power of producing abortion.
eccentrical: See Eccentric.
ecchymose: To discolor by the production of an ecchymosis, or effusion ofblood, beneath the skin; -- chiefly used in the passive form; as, theparts were much ecchymosed.
ecchymotic: Pertaining to ecchymosis.
ecclesial: Ecclesiastical. [Obs.] Milton.
ecclesiological: Belonging to ecclesiology.
ecclesiology: The science or theory of church building and decoration.
ecdysis: The act of shedding, or casting off, an outer cuticular layer,as in the case of serpents, lobsters, etc.; a coming out; as, theecdysis of the pupa from its shell; exuviation.
echinoidea: The class Echinodermata which includes the sea urchins. Theyhave a calcareous, usually more or less spheroidal or disk-shaped,composed of many united plates, and covered with movable spines. SeeSpatangoid, Clypeastroid. [Written also Echinidea, and Echinoida.]
echometer: A graduated scale for measuring the duration of sounds, anddetermining their different, and the relation of their intervals. J.J. Rousseau.
ecliptic: A great circle of the celestial sphere, making an angle withthe equinoctial of about 23º 28'. It is the apparent path of the sun,or the real path of the earth as seen from the sun.
eclogue: A pastoral poem, in which shepherds are introduced conversingwith each other; a bucolic; an idyl; as, the Ecloques of Virgil, fromwhich the modern usage of the word has been established.
ecrasement: The operation performed with an écraseur.
ecraseur: An instrument intended to replace the knife in many operations,the parts operated on being severed by the crushing effect producedby the gradual tightening of a steel chain, so that hemorrhage rarelyfollows.
ecstasy: A state which consists in total suspension of sensibility, ofvoluntary motion, and largely of mental power. The body is erect andinflexible; the pulsation and breathing are not affected. Mayne.
eddoes: The tubers of Colocasia antiquorum. See Taro.
eddy: To move as an eddy, or as in an eddy; to move in a circle.Eddying round and round they sink. Wordsworth.
edentation: A depriving of teeth. [R.] Cockeram.
edict: A public command or ordinance by the sovereign power; theproclamation of a law made by an absolute authority, as if by thevery act of announcement; a decree; as, the edicts of the Romanemperors; the edicts of the French monarch.It stands as an edict in destiny. Shak.Edict of Nantes (French Hist.), an edict issued by Henry IV. (A. D.1598), giving toleration to Protestants. Its revocation by Louis XIV.(A. D. 1685) was followed by terrible persecutions and theexpatriation of thousands of French Protestants.
edificatory: Tending to edification. Bp. Hall.
editor: One who edits; esp., a person who prepares, superintends,revises, and corrects a book, magazine, or newspaper, etc., forpublication.
edituate: To guard as a churchwarden does. [Obs.] J. Gregory.
edriophthalmous: Pertaining to the Edriophthalma.
eductor: One who, or that which, brings forth, elicits, or extracts.Stimulus must be called an eductor of vital ether. E. Darwin.
edulcorator: A contrivance used to supply small quantities of sweetenedliquid, water, etc., to any mixture, or to test tubes, etc.; adropping bottle.
eelpot: A boxlike structure with funnel-shaped traps for catching eels;an eelbuck.
effectively: With effect; powerfully; completely; thoroughly.
effectuation: Act of effectuating.
effectuously: Effectively. [Obs.]
efficacity: Efficacy. [R.] J. Fryth.
efflagitate: To ask urgently. [Obs.] Cockeram.
efflorescency: The state or quality of being efflorescent; efflorescence.
egence: The state of needing, or of suffering a natural want. [R.] J.Grote.
egg: The oval or roundish body laid by domestic poultry and otherbirds, tortoises, etc. It consists of a yolk, usually surrounded bythe "white" or albumen, and inclosed in a shell or strong membrane.
eggement: Instigation; incitement. [Obs.] Chaucer.
egger: One who gathers eggs; an eggler.
eggshell: A smooth, white, marine, gastropod shell of the genus Ovulum,resembling an egg in form.
egilops: See Ægilops.
egotistically: With egotism.
egranulose: Having no granules, as chlorophyll in certain conditions. R.Brown.
eh: An expression of inquiry or slight surprise.
eight: An island in a river; an ait. [Obs.] "Osiers on their eights."Evelyn.
eighteenmo: See Octodecimo.
eigne: Eldest; firstborn. Blackstone.
eject: To cast out; to evict; to dispossess; as, to eject tenants froman estate.
ejoo: Gomuti fiber. See Gomuti.
eke: To increase; to add to; to augment; -- now commonly used without, the notion conveyed being to add to, or piece out by alaborious, inferior, or scanty addition; as, to eke out a scantysupply of one kind with some other. "To eke my pain." Spenser.He eked out by his wits an income of barely fifty pounds. Macaulay.
elaborate: Wrought with labor; finished with great care; studied; executedwith exactness or painstaking; as, an elaborate discourse; anelaborate performance; elaborate research.Drawn to the life in each elaborate page. Waller.
elaboration: The natural process of formation or assimilation, performed bythe living organs in animals and vegetables, by which a crudesubstance is changed into something of a higher order; as, theelaboration of food into chyme; the elaboration of chyle, or sap, ortissues.
elaboratory: Tending to elaborate.
elaeolite: A variety of hephelite, usually massive, of greasy luster, andgray to reddish color. Elæolite syenite, a kind of syenitecharacterized by the presence of elæolite.
elaterite: A mineral resin, of a blackish brown color, occurring in soft,flexible masses; -- called also mineral caoutchouc, and elasticbitumen.
elatery: Acting force; elasticity. [Obs.] Ray.
elayl: Olefiant gas or ethylene; -- so called by Berzelius from itsforming an oil combining with chlorine. [Written also elayle.] SeeEthylene.
elder: A clergyman authorized to administer all the sacraments; as, atraveling elder. Presiding elder (Meth. Ch.), an elder commissionedby a bishop to have the oversight of the churches and preachers in acertain district.-- Ruling elder, a lay presbyter or member of a Presbyterian churchsession. Schaff.
electricalness: The state or quality of being electrical.
electrification: The act of electrifying, or the state of being charged withelectricity.
electrization: The act of electrizing; electrification.
electrogeny: A term sometimes applied to the effects (tetanus) produced inthe muscles of the limbs, when a current of electricity is passedalong the spinal cord or nerves.
electrotonous: Electrotonic.
elicitate: To elicit. [Obs.]
elicitation: The act of eliciting. [Obs.] Abp. Bramhall.
elixir: A tincture with more than one base; a compound tincture ormedicine, composed of various substances, held in solution by alcoholin some form.
elkwood: The soft, spongy wood of a species of Magnolia (M. Umbrella).
elocutionary: Pertaining to elocution.
elucidate: To make clear or manifest; to render more intelligible; toillustrate; as, an example will elucidate the subject.
elucidation: A making clear; the act of elucidating or that whichelucidates, as an explanation, an exposition, an illustration; as,one example may serve for further elucidation of the subject.
elucidative: Making clear; tending to elucidate; as, an elucidative note.
elucidator: One who explains or elucidates; an expositor.
elvan: Of or pertaining to certain veins of feldspathic or porphyriticrock crossing metalliferous veins in the mining districts ofCornwall; as, an elvan course.
emasculatory: Serving or tending to emasculate.
embalmer: One who embalms.
embassadorial: Same as Ambassadorial.
embezzlement: The fraudulent appropriation of property by a person to whom ithas been intrusted; as, the embezzlement by a clerk of hisemployer's; embezzlement of public funds by the public officer havingthem in charge.
embolic: Pertaining to an embolism; produced by an embolism; as, anembolic abscess.
emborder: To furnish or adorn with a border; to imborder.
embraceor: One guilty of embracery.
embroglio: See Imbroglio.
embryogenic: Pertaining to the development of an embryo.
embryography: The general description of embryos.
embryonic: Of or pertaining to an embryo; embryonal; rudimentary.Embryonic sac or vesicle (Bot.), the vesicle within which the embryois developed in the ovule; -- sometimes called also amnios sac, andembryonal sac.
emend: To purge of faults; to make better; to correct; esp., to makecorrections in (a literary work); to alter for the better by textualcriticism, generally verbal.
emery: Corundum in the form of grains or powder, used in the arts forgrinding and polishing hard substances. Native emery is mixed withmore or less magnetic iron. See the Note under Corundum. Emery board,cardboard pulp mixed with emery and molded into convenient.-- Emery cloth or paper, cloth or paper on which the powder of emeryis spread and glued for scouring and polishing.-- Emery wheel, a wheel containing emery, or having a surface ofemery. In machine shops, it is sometimes called a buff wheel, and bythe manufacturers of cutlery, a glazer.
emforth: According to; conformably to. [Obs.] Chaucer. Emforth my might,so far as lies in my power. [Obs.]
eminently: In an eminent manner; in a high degree; conspicuously; as, tobe eminently learned.
emissory: Same as Emissary, a., 2.
emotionalize: To give an emotional character to.Brought up in a pious family where religion was not talked aboutemotionalized, but was accepted as the rule of thought and conduct.Froude.
empearl: To form like pearls; to decorate with, or as with, pearls; toimpearl.
emperice: An empress. [Obs.] Chaucer.
emperorship: The rank or office of an emperor.
emphasize: To utter or pronounce with a particular stress of voice; tomake emphatic; as, to emphasize a word or a phrase.
emphrensy: To madden. [Obs.]
empight: Fixed; settled; fastened. [Obs.] Spenser.
emplastration: The application of a plaster or salve.
employee: One employed by another.
empressement: Demonstrative warmth or cordiality of manner; display ofenthusiasm.
empty: An empty box, crate, cask, etc.; -- used in commerce, esp. intransportation of freight; as, "special rates for empties."
empugn: See Impugn.
emunctory: Any organ or part of the body (as the kidneys, skin, etc.,)which serves to carry off excrementitious or waste matter.
enamor: To inflame with love; to charm; to captivate; -- with of, orwith, before the person or thing; as, to be enamored with a lady; tobe enamored of books or science. [Written also enamour.]Passionately enamored of this shadow of a dream. W. Irving.
enarmed: Same as Armed, 3.
encamp: To form and occupy a camp; to prepare and settle in temporaryhabitations, as tents or huts; to halt on a march, pitch tents, orform huts, and remain for the night or for a longer time, as an armyor a company traveling.The host of the Philistines encamped in the valley of Rephaim. 1Chron. xi. 15.
encave: To hide in, or as in, a cave or recess. "Do but encaveyourself." Shak.
encephalon: The contents of the cranium; the brain.
encircle: To form a circle about; to inclose within a circle or ring; tosurround; as, to encircle one in the arms; the army encircled thecity.Her brows encircled with his serpent rod. Parnell.
encirclet: A small circle; a ring. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney.
enclasp: To clasp. See Inclasp.
enclavement: The state of being an enclave. [Recent]
encomber: See Encumber. [Obs.]
encomberment: Hindrance; molestation.[Obs.] Spenser.
encradle: To lay in a cradle.
encurtain: To inclose with curtains.
encyclopedian: Embracing the whole circle of learning, or a wide range ofsubjects.
endangerment: Hazard; peril. Milton.
endeavorer: One who makes an effort or attempt. [Written also endeavourer.]
endeavorment: Act of endeavoring; endeavor. [Obs.] Spenser.
endecagon: A plane figure of eleven sides and angles.
endeictic: Serving to show or exhibit; as, an endeictic dialogue, in thePlatonic philosophy, is one which exhibits a specimen of skill.Enfield.
endenizen: To admit to the privileges of a denizen; to naturalize. [Obs.]B. Jonson.
endict: See Indict.
endogeny: Growth from within; multiplication of cells by endogenousdivision, as in the development of one or more cells in the interiorof a parent cell.
endorhiza: Any monocotyledonous plant; -- so named because manymonocotyledons have an endorhizal embryo.
endorse: Same as Indorse.
endosmometric: Pertaining to, or designed for, the measurement of endosmoticaction.
endue: To invest. Latham.Tarry ye in the city of Jerusalem, until ye be endued with power fromon high. Luke xxiv. 49.Endue them . . . with heavenly gifts. Book of Common Prayer.
endurable: Capable of being endured or borne; sufferable. Macaulay.-- En*dur"a*ble*ness, n.
endurer: One who, or that which, endures or lasts; one who bears,suffers, or sustains.
enfire: To set on fire. [Obs.] Spenser.
enfranchiser: One who enfranchises.
engagement: An action; a fight; a battle.In hot engagement with the Moors. Dryden.
engager: One who enters into an engagement or agreement; a surety.Several sufficient citizens were engagers. Wood.
engaging: Tending to draw the attention or affections; attractive; as,engaging manners or address.-- En*ga"ging*ly, adv.-- En*ga"ging*ness, n. Engaging and disengaging gear or machinery,that in which, or by means of which, one part is alternately broughtinto gear or out of gear with another part, as occasion may require.
engarrison: To garrison; to put in garrison, or to protect by a garrison.Bp. Hall.
engulf: To absorb or swallow up as in a gulf.It quite engulfs all human thought. Young.
enhalo: To surround with a halo.
enhancement: The act of increasing, or state of being increased;augmentation; aggravation; as, the enhancement of value, price,enjoyments, crime.
enlay: See Inlay.
enmure: To immure. [Obs.]
ennead: The number nine or a group of nine. The Enneads, the titlegiven to the works of the philosopher Plotinus, published by hispupil Porphyry; -- so called because each of the six books into whichit is divided contains nine chapters.
enneagonal: Belonging to an enneagon; having nine angles.
ennew: To make new. [Obs.] Skelton.
ennuye: Affected with ennui; weary in spirits; emotionally exhausted.
enravish: To transport with delight; to enrapture; to fascinate. Spenser.
enroot: To fix by the root; to fix fast; to implant deep. Shak.
ensample: An example; a pattern or model for imitation. [Obs.] Tyndale.Being ensamples to the flock.
ensanguine: To stain or cover with blood; to make bloody, or of a blood-redcolor; as, an ensanguined hue. "The ensanguined field." Milton.
enseal: To impress with a seal; to mark as with a seal; hence, toratify. [Obs.]This deed I do enseal. Piers Plowman.
enshield: To defend, as with a shield; to shield. [Archaic] Shak.
ensober: To make sober. [Obs.]Sad accidents to ensober his spirits. Jer. Taylor.
ensurer: See Insurer.
entablature: The superstructure which lies horizontally upon the columns.See Illust. of Column, Cornice.
entassment: A heap; accumulation. [R.]
enteradenology: The science which treats of the glands of the alimentary canal.
entermete: To interfere; to intermeddle. [Obs.] Chaucer.
entermewer: A hawk gradually changing the color of its feathers, commonlyin the second year.
enterology: The science which treats of the viscera of the body.
enteropathy: Disease of the intestines.
enteropneusta: A group of wormlike invertebrates having, along the sides ofthe body, branchial openings for the branchial sacs, which are formedby diverticula of the alimentary canal. Balanoglossus is the onlyknown genus. See Illustration in Appendix.
enterorrhaphy: The operation of sewing up a rent in the intestinal canal.
enterpriser: One who undertakes enterprises. Sir J. Hayward.
entertainer: One who entertains.
entheastic: Of godlike energy; inspired.-- En`the*as"tic*al*ly, adv.
enthrill: To pierce; to thrill. [Obs.] Sackville.
entoblast: The inner germ layer; endoderm. See Nucleolus.
entoil: To take with toils or bring into toils; to insnare. [R.]Entoiled in woofed phantasies. Keats.
entomologist: One versed in entomology.
entotic: Pertaining to the interior of the ear.
entrain: To draw along as a current does; as, water entrained by steam.
entreatance: Entreaty. [Obs.] Fairfax.
entrepot: A warehouse; a magazine for depositing goods, stores, etc.; amart or place where merchandise is deposited; as, an entrepôt forshipping goods in transit.
entresol: A low story between two higher ones, usually between the groundfloor and the first story; mezzanine. Parker.
entrochal: Pertaining to, or consisting of, entrochites, or the joints ofencrinites; -- used of a kind of stone or marble.
entropium: The inversion or turning in of the border of the eyelids.
envassal: To make a vassal of. [Obs.]
envault: To inclose in a vault; to entomb. [R.] Swift.
envermeil: To color with, or as with, vermilion; to dye red. [Obs.]Milton.
envie: To vie; to emulate; to strive. [Obs.] Spenser.
enwallow: To plunge into, or roll in, flith; to wallow.So now all three one senseless lump remain, Enwallowed in his ownblack bloody gore. Spenser.
enwoman: To endow with the qualities of a woman. [R.] Daniel.
eolic: See Æolic.
epaule: The shoulder of a bastion, or the place where its face andflank meet and form the angle, called the angle of the shoulder.
ependymis: See Ependyma.
epergne: A centerpiece for table decoration, usually consisting ofseveral dishes or receptacles of different sizes grouped together inan ornamental design.
ephesian: Of or pertaining to Ephesus, an ancient city of Ionia, in AsiaMinor.
ephraim: A hunter's name for the grizzly bear.
epiboly: Epibolic invagination. See under Invagination.
epibranchial: Pertaining to the segment between the ceratobranchial andpharyngobranchial in a branchial arch.-- n.
epicedium: An epicede.
epicerastic: Lenient; assuaging. [Obs.]
epicondylar: Pertaining to, or resembling, an epicondyle.
epicurely: Luxuriously. Nash.
epicycle: A circle, whose center moves round in the circumference of agreater circle; or a small circle, whose center, being fixed in thedeferent of a planet, is carried along with the deferent, and yet, byits own peculiar motion, carries the body of the planet fastened toit round its proper center.The schoolmen were like astronomers which did feign eccentries, andepicycles, and such engines of orbs. Bacon.
epidermic: Epidermal; connected with the skin or the bark. Epidermicadministration of medicine (Med.), the application of medicine to theskin by friction.
epidermidal: Epidermal. [R.]
epidermis: The outer, nonsensitive layer of the skin; cuticle; scarfskin.See Dermis.
epigaea: An American genus of plants, containing but a single species(E. repens), the trailing arbutus.
epigaeous: Growing on, or close to, the ground.
epigraph: A citation from some author, or a sentence framed for thepurpose, placed at the beginning of a work or of its separatedivisions; a motto.
epinicial: Relating to victory. "An epinicial song." T. Warton.
epinikian: Epinicial.
epiphytal: Pertaining to an epiphyte.
epipubis: A cartilage or bone in front of the pubis in some amphibiansand other animals.
episcopant: A bishop. [Obs.] Milton.
epistolean: One who writes epistles; a correspondent. Mary Cowden Clarke.
epistolet: A little epistle. Lamb.
epistolographic: Pertaining to the writing of letters; used in writing letters;epistolary. Epistolographic character or mode of writing, the same asDemotic character. See under Demotic.
epitaphic: Pertaining to an epitaph; epitaphian.-- n.
epithalamic: Belonging to, or designed for, an epithalamium.
epithumetic: Epithumetical. [Obs.]
epitomator: An epitomist. Sir W. Hamilton.
epitomist: One who makes an epitome; one who abridges; an epitomizer.Milton.
epitrochlear: Relating to the epitrochlea.
epochal: Belonging to an epoch; of the nature of an epoch. "Epochalpoints." Shedd.
epodic: Pertaining to, or resembling, an epode.
equalitarian: One who believes in equalizing the condition of men; a leveler.
equidistance: Equal distance.
equinoctial: The equinoctial line.
equitableness: The quality of being equitable, just, or impartial; as, theequitableness of a judge, a decision, or distribution of property.
equitemporaneous: Contemporaneous. [Obs.] Boyle.
equity: An equitable claim; an equity of redemption; as, an equity to asettlement, or wife's equity, etc.I consider the wife's equity to be too well settled to be shaken.Kent.
equivocally: In an equivocal manner.
equivocate: To use words of equivocal or doubtful signification; to expressone's opinions in terms which admit of different senses, with intentto deceive; to use ambiguous expressions with a view to mislead; as,to equivocate is the work of duplicity.All that Garnet had to say for him was that he supposed he meant toequivocate. Bp. Stillingfleet.
equivorous: Feeding on horseflesh; as, equivorous Tartars.
erasure: The act of erasing; a scratching out; obliteration.
erection: The state of a part which, from having been soft, has becomehard and swollen by the accumulation of blood in the erectile tissue.
erectness: Uprightness of posture or form.
ergotized: Affected with the ergot fungus; as, ergotized rye.
ericinol: A colorless oil (quickly becoming brown), with a pleasant odor,obtained by the decomposition of ericolin.
ericolin: A glucoside found in the bearberry (and others of theEricaceæ), and extracted as a bitter, yellow, amorphous mass.
eriometer: An instrument for measuring the diameters of minute particlesor fibers, from the size of the colored rings produced by thediffraction of the light in which the objects are viewed.
erode: To eat into or away; to corrode; as, canker erodes the flesh."The blood . . . erodes the vessels." Wiseman.The smaller charge is more apt to . . . erode the gun. Am. Cyc.
erodent: A medicine which eats away extraneous growths; a caustic.
eros: Love; the god of love; -- by earlier writers represented as oneof the first and creative gods, by later writers as the son ofAphrodite, equivalent to the Latin god Cupid.
erotic: An amorous composition or poem.
erudition: The act of instructing; the result of thorough instruction; thestate of being erudite or learned; the acquisitions gained byextensive reading or study; particularly, learning in literature orcriticism, as distinct from the sciences; scholarship.The management of a young lady's person is not be overlooked, but theerudition of her mind is much more to be regarded. Steele.The gay young gentleman whose erudition sat so easily upon him.Macaulay.
erythematous: Relating to, or causing, erythema.
escarbuncle: See Carbuncle, 3.
escarpment: A steep descent or declivity; steep face or edge of a ridge;ground about a fortified place, cut away nearly vertically to preventhostile approach. See Scarp.
escheat: To revert, or become forfeited, to the lord, the crown, or theState, as lands by the failure of persons entitled to hold the same,or by forfeiture.
espalier: A railing or trellis upon which fruit trees or shrubs aretrained, as upon a wall; a tree or row of trees so trained.And figs from standard and espalier join. Pope.
esparcet: The common sainfoin (Onobrychis sativa), an Old Worldleguminous forage plant.
esperance: Hope. [Obs.] Shak.
espousement: The act of espousing, or the state of being espoused.
espy: To look or search narrowly; to look about; to watch; to takenotice; to spy.Stand by the way, and espy. Jer. xlviii. 19.
esquisse: The first sketch of a picture or model of a statue.
essentiality: The quality of being essential; the essential part. Jer.Taylor.
estrangement: The act of estranging, or the state of being estranged;alienation.An estrangement from God. J. C. Shairp.A long estrangement from better things. South.
estreat: A true copy, duplicate, or extract of an original writing orrecord, esp. of amercements or penalties set down in the rolls ofcourt to be levied by the bailiff, or other officer. Cowell. Estreatof a recognizance, the extracting or taking out a forfeitedrecognizance from among the other records of the court, for thepurpose of a prosecution in another court, or it may be in the samecourt. Burrill.
estuarine: Pertaining to an estuary; estuary.
etagere: A piece of furniture having a number of uninclosed shelves orstages, one above another, for receiving articles of elegance or use.Fairholt.
ethereally: In an ethereal manner.
etheriform: Having the form of ether.
ethnographer: One who investigates ethnography.
ethologist: One who studies or writes upon ethology.
etoile: See Estoile.
etruscan: Of or relating to Etruria.-- n.
euchologue: Euchology. [R.]
euchroic: Having a fine color. Euchroic acid (Chem.), an organic, imideacid, obtained as a colorless crystalline substance, C12H4N2O8 byheating an ammonium salt of mellitic acid. By reduction it is changedto a dark blue substance (euchrone), -- hence its name.
eudiometer: An instrument for the volumetric measurement of gases; -- sonamed because frequently used to determine the purity of the air.
euhemerist: One who advocates euhemerism.
eumenides: A euphemistic name for the Furies of Erinyes.
eunomy: Equal law, or a well-adjusted constitution of government. [R.]Mitford.
euphonium: A bass instrument of the saxhorn family.
euphroe: A block or long slat of wood, perforated for the passage of thecrowfoot, or cords by which an awning is held up. [Written alsouphroe and uvrou.] Knight.
euphuist: One who affects excessive refinement and elegance of language;-- applied esp. to a class of writers, in the age of Elizabeth, whoseproductions are marked by affected conceits and high-flown diction.
euplectella: A genus of elegant, glassy sponges, consisting of interwovensiliceous fibers, and growing in the form of a cornucopia; -- calledalso Venus's flower-basket.
euripus: A strait; a narrow tract of water, where the tide, or acurrent, flows and reflows with violence, as the ancient fright ofthis name between Eubæa and Bæotia. Hence, a flux and reflux. Burke.
eustyle: See Intercolumnlation.
euthanasy: Same as Euthanasia.
evangelism: The preaching or promulgation of the gospel. Bacon.
evangelist: A bringer of the glad tidings of Church and his doctrines.Specially
eventide: The time of evening; evening. [Poetic.] Spenser.
eventuate: To come out finally or in conclusion; to result; to come topass.
everyday: Used or fit for every day; common; usual; as, an everyday suitor clothes.The mechanical drudgery of his everyday employment. Sir. J. Herchel.
evolution: The formation of an involute by unwrapping a thread from acurve as an evolute. Hutton.
evulgate: To publish abroad. [Obs.]
ewt: The newt.
exactitude: The quality of being exact; exactness.
exactor: One who exacts or demands by authority or right; hence, anextortioner; also, one unreasonably severe in injunctions or demands.Jer. Taylor.
examining: Having power to examine; appointed to examine; as, an examiningcommittee.
exampleless: Without or above example. [R.]
exarate: To plow up; also, to engrave; to write. [Obs.] Blount.
exaspidean: Having the anterior scute
excalfactive: Serving to heat; warming. [Obs.] Cotgrave.
excavator: One who, or that which, excavates or hollows out; a machine, asa dredging machine, or a tool, for excavating.
except: To take exception; to object; -- usually followed by to,sometimes by against; as, to except to a witness or his testimony.Except thou wilt except against my love. Shak.
excerebration: The act of removing or beating out the brains.
excerptor: One who makes excerpts; a picker; a culler.
excessive: Characterized by, or exhibiting, excess; overmuch.Excessive grief [is] the enemy to the living. Shak.
excheat: See Escheat. [Obs.] Spenser.
excitation: The act of producing excitement (stimulation); also, theexcitement produced.
exciteful: Full of exciting qualities; as, an exciteful story; excitefulplayers. Chapman.
exciting: Calling or rousing into action; producing excitement; as,exciting events; an exciting story.-- Ex*cit"ing*ly, adv. Exciting causes (Med.), those whichimmediately produce disease, or those which excite the action ofpredisposing causes.
exclaimer: One who exclaims.
exclamative: Exclamatory. Earle.-- Ex*clam"a*tive*ly, adv.
exclusiveness: Quality of being exclusive.
excoction: The act of excocting or boiling out. [Obs.] Bacon.
excommunicator: One who excommunicates.
excommunion: . A shutting out from communion; excommunication. [Obs.]Excommunication is the utmost of ecclesiastical judicature. Milton.
excruciable: Liable to torment. [R.] Bailey.
exculpation: The act of exculpating from alleged fault or crime; that whichexculpates; excuse.These robbers, however, were men who might have made out a strongcase in exculpation of themselves. Southey.
excur: To run out or forth; to extend. [Obs.] Harvey.
excursionist: One who goes on an excursion, or pleasure trip.
execrate: To denounce evil against, or to imprecate evil upon; to curse;to protest against as unholy or detestable; hence, to detest utterly;to abhor; to abominate. "They . . . execrate their lct." Cowper.
exect: To cut off or out. [Obs.] See Exsect. Harvey.
exegetics: The science of interpretation or exegesis.
exemptitious: Separable. [Obs.] "Exemptitious from matter." Dr. H. More.
exercisable: That may be exercised, used, or exerted.
exfoliative: Having the power of causing exfoliation.-- n.
exhausture: Exhaustion. Wraxall.
exhedra: See Exedra.
exheredate: To disinherit. [R.] Huloet.
exhibitor: One who exhibits.
exhilarate: To make merry or jolly; to enliven; to animate; to gladdengreatly; to cheer; as, good news exhilarates the mind; wineexhilarates a man.
exhumated: Disinterred. [Obs.]
exigenter: An officer in the Court of King's Bench and Common Pleas whoseduty it was make out exigents. The office in now abolished. Cowell.
exigible: That may be exacted; repairable. [R.] A. Smith.
existent: Having being or existence; existing; being; occurring now;taking place.The eyes and mind are fastened on objects which have no real being,as if they were truly existent. Dryden.
existimation: Esteem; opinion; reputation. [Obs.] Steele.
exoccipital: Pertaining to a bone or region on each side of the greatforemen of the skull.-- n.
exodic: Conducting influences from the spinal cord outward; -- said ofthe motor or efferent nerves. Opposed to esodic.
exogamous: Relating to exogamy; marrying outside of the limits of one'sown tribe; -- opposed to endogenous.
exophyllous: Not sheathed in another leaf.
exoptable: Very desirable. [Obs.] Bailey.
exortive: Rising; relating to the east. [R.]
exoskeletal: Pertaining to the exoskeleton; as exoskeletal muscles.
exosmosis: See Exosmose.
expectedly: In conformity with expectation. [R.] Walpole.
expectingly: In state of expectation.
expede: To expedite; to hasten. [Obs.]
expediment: An expedient. [Obs.]A like expediment to remove discontent. Barrow.
experienced: Taught by practice or by repeated observations; skillful orwise by means of trials, use, or observation; as, an experiencedphysician, workman, soldier; an experienced eye.The ablest and most experienced statesmen. Bancroft.
experientialism: The doctrine that experience, either that ourselves or ofothers, is the test or criterion of general knowledge; -- opposed tointuitionists.Experientialism is in short, a philosophical or logical theory, not aphilosophical one. G. C. Robertson.
expiatorious: Of an expiatory nature; expiatory. Jer. Taylor.
expiry: Expiration.He had to leave at the expiry of the term. Lamb.The Parliament . . . now approaching the expiry of its legal term. J.Morley.
explanatory: Serving to explain; containing explanation; as explanatorynotes. Swift.
explicable: Capable of being explicated; that may be explained or accountedfor; admitting explanation.It is not explicable upon any grounds. Burke.
exponential: Pertaining to exponents; involving variable exponents; as, anexponential expression; exponential calculus; an exponentialfunction. Exponential curve, a curve whose nature is defined by meansof an exponential equation.-- Exponential equation, an equation which contains an exponentialquantity, or in which the unknown quantity enters as an exponent.-- Exponential quantity (Math.), a quantity whose exponent isunknown or variable, as ax.-- Exponential series, a series derived from the development ofexponential equations or quantities.
exporter: One who exports; the person who sends goods or commodities to aforeign country, in the way of commerce; -- opposed to importer.
expressional: Of, or relating to, expression; phraseological; also, vividlyrepresenting or suggesting an idea sentiment. Fized. Hall. Ruskin.
expunction: The act of expunging or erasing; the condition of beingexpunged. Milton.
exscind: To cut off; to separate or expel from union; to extirpate.Barrow.The second presbytery of Philadelphia was also exscinded by thatAssembly. Am. Cyc.
exsertile: Capable of being thrust out or protruded. J. Fleming.
exspuition: A discharge of saliva by spitting. [R.] E. Darwin.
extempore: Without previous study or meditation; without preparation; onthe spur of the moment; suddenly; extemporaneously; as, to write orspeak extempore. Shak.-- a.
extension: That property of a body by which it occupies a portion ofspace.
extensional: Having great extent.
externalize: To make external; to manifest by outward form.Thought externalizes itself in language. Soyce.
exterritorial: Beyond the territorial limits; foreign to, or exempt from, theterritorial jurisdiction.-- Ex*ter`ri*to"ri*al*ly(#),adv.
extirpable: Capable of being extirpated or eradicated; as, an extirpableplant. Evelyn.
extortioner: , One who practices extortion.
extract: A solid preparation obtained by evaporating a solution of adrug, etc., or the fresh juice of a plant; -- distinguished from anabstract. See Abstract, n., 4.
extractiform: Having the form, appearance, or nature, of an extract.
extradictionary: Consisting not in words, but in realities. [Obs.]Of these extradictionary and real fallacies, Aristotle and logiciansmake in number six. Sir T. Browne.
extraordinariness: The quality of being extraordinary. [R.] Gov. of the Tongue.
extravagant: Certain constitutions or decretal epistles, not at firstincluded with others, but subsequently made a part of the canon law.
extremity: One of locomotive appendages of an animal; a limb; a leg or anarm of man.
extruction: A building up; construction. [Obs.] Cockeram.
exudate: To exude. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
exulcerate: Very sore; ulcerated. [Obs.] Bacon.
exult: To be in high spirits; figuratively, to leap for joy; torejoice in triumph or exceedingly; to triumph; as, an exulting heart."An exulting countenance." Bancroft.The dumb shall sing, the lame his crutch forego, And leap exultinglike the bounding roe. Pope.
ey: An island. [Obs.]
eyebright: A small annual plant (Euphrasia officinalis), formerly muchused as a remedy for diseases of the eye.
eyed: Heaving (such or so many) eyes; -- used in composition; assharp-eyed; dull-eyed; sad-eyed; ox-eyed Juno; myriad-eyed.
eyeful: Filling or satisfying the eye; visible; remarkable. [Obs.]"Eyeful trophies." Chapman.
eyestalk: One of the movable peduncles which, in the decapod Crustacea,bear the eyes at the tip.
eyestring: The tendon by which the eye is moved. Shak.
eyetooth: A canine tooth of the upper jaw. See Teeth. To cut one'seyeteeth, to become acute or knowing. [Colloq.]
face: Ten degrees in extent of a sign of the zodiac. Chaucer.
facetiae: Witty or humorous writings or saying; witticisms; merryconceits.
facia: See Fascia.
factionist: One who promotes faction.
factive: Making; having power to make. [Obs.] "You are . . . factive,not destructive." Bacon.
fadme: A fathom. [Obs.] Chaucer.
faecal: See Fecal.
faecula: See Fecula.
fag: A knot or coarse part in cloth. [Obs.]
fagot: A bassoon. See Fagotto.
failance: Fault; failure; omission. [Obs.] Bp. Fell.
fainty: Feeble; languid. [R.] Dryden.
falconer: A person who breeds or trains hawks for taking birds or game;one who follows the sport of fowling with hawks. Johnson.
fallacious: Embodying or pertaining to a fallacy; illogical; fitted todeceive; misleading; delusive; as, fallacious arguments or reasoning.-- Fal*la"cious*ly, adv. -Fal*la"cious*ness, n.
fallax: Cavillation; a caviling. [Obs.] Cranmer.
falsifiable: Capable of being falsified, counterfeited, or corrupted.Johnson.
falsificator: A falsifier. Bp. Morton.
famine: General scarcity of food; dearth; a want of provisions;destitution. "Worn with famine." Milton.There was a famine in the land. Gen. xxvi. 1.Famine fever (Med.), typhus fever.
famous: Celebrated in fame or public report; renowned; mach talked of;distinguished in story; -- used in either a good or a bad sense,chiefly the former; often followed by for; as, famous for erudition,for eloquence, for military skill; a famous pirate.Famous for a scolding tongue. Shak.
famulate: To serve. [Obs.]
famulist: A collegian of inferior rank or position, corresponding to thesizar at Cambridge. [Oxford Univ., Eng.]
fangot: A quantity of wares, as raw silk, etc., from one hundredweight.
fantastico: A fantastic. [Obs.] Shak.
fantasy: To have a fancy for; to be pleased with; to like; to fancy.[Obs.] Cavendish.Which he doth most fantasy. Robynson (More's Utopia).
farfetch: To bring from far; to seek out studiously. [Obs.]To farfetch the name of Tartar from a Hebrew word. Fuller.
farl: Same as Furl. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.
farmery: The buildings and yards necessary for the business of a farm; ahomestead. [Eng.]
farsightedness: Hypermetropia.
farthest: Most distant or remote; as, the farthest degree.  See Furthest.
farthingale: A hoop skirt or hoop petticoat, or other light, elasticmaterial, used to extend the petticoat.We'll revel it as bravely as the best, . . . With ruffs and cuffs,and farthingales and things. Shak.
fascicle: A small bundle or collection; a compact cluster; as, a fascicleof fibers; a fascicle of flowers or roots.
fascicular: Pertaining to a fascicle; fascicled; as, a fascicular root.
fashionably: In a fashionable manner.
fastidiosity: Fastidiousness; squeamishness. [Obs.] Swift.
fastish: Rather fast; also, somewhat dissipated. [Colloq.] Thackeray.
fatalistic: Implying, or partaking of the nature of, fatalism.
fatherland: One's native land; the native land of one's fathers orancestors.
fathership: The state of being a father; fatherhood; paternity.
fattener: One who, or that which, fattens; that which gives fatness orfertility.
fattiness: State or quality of being fatty.
fatuity: Weakness or imbecility of mind; stupidity.Those many forms of popular fatuity. I Taylor.
faubourg: A suburb of French city; also, a district now within a city,but formerly without its walls.
fauces: The narrow passage from the mouth to the pharynx, situatedbetween the soft palate and the base of the tongue; -- called alsothe isthmus of the fauces. On either side of the passage twomembranous folds, called the pillars of the fauces, inclose thetonsils.
fauchion: See Falchion. [Obs.]
faultful: Full of faults or sins. Shak.
faunus: See Faun.
favonian: Pertaining to the west wind; soft; mild; gentle.
favose: Honeycombed. See Faveolate.
feasibility: The quality of being feasible; practicability; also, that whichis feasible; as, before we adopt a plan, let us consider itsfeasibility.Men often swallow falsities for truths, dubiosities for certainties,possibilities for feasibilities. Sir T. Browne.
featherless: Destitute of feathers.
febriferous: Causing fever; as, a febriferous locality.
fecial: Pertaining to heralds, declarations of war, and treaties ofpeace; as, fecial law. Kent.
feculency: Feculence.
federary: A partner; a confederate; an accomplice. [Obs.] hak.
feejee: See Fijian.
feigned: Not real or genuine; pretended; counterfeit; insincere; false."A feigned friend." Shak.Give ear unto my prayer, that goeth not out of feigned lips. Ps.xvii. 1.-- Feign"ed*ly, adv.-- Feign"ed*ness, n.Her treacherous sister Judah hath not turned unto me with her wholeheart, but feignedly. Jer. iii. 10.Feigned issue (Law), an issue produced in a pretended action betweentwo parties for the purpose of trying before a jury a question offact which it becomes necessary to settle in the progress of a cause.Burill. Bouvier.
feitsui: The Chinese name for a highly prized variety of pale greenjade. See Jade.
felanders: See Filanders.
feline: Catlike; of or pertaining to the genus Felis, or family Felidæ;as, the feline race; feline voracity.
fell: imp. of Fall.
fellowfeel: To share through sympathy; to participate in. [R.] D. Rodgers.
fellowlike: Like a companion; companionable; on equal terms; sympathetic.[Obs.] Udall.
felon: A person who has committed a felony.
felonry: A body of felons; specifically, the convict population of apenal colony. Howitt.
felonwort: The bittersweet nightshade (Solanum Dulcamara). SeeBittersweet.
felsite: A finegrained rock, flintlike in fracture, consistingessentially of orthoclase feldspar with occasional grains of quartz.
felwort: A European herb (Swertia perennis) of the Gentian family.
femalize: To make, or to describe as, female or feminine. Shaftesbury.
feme: A woman. Burrill. Feme covert (Law), a married woman. SeeCovert, a., 3.-- Feme sole (Law), a single or unmarried woman; a woman who hasnever been married, or who has been divorced, or whose husband isdead.-- Feme sole trader or merchant (Eng. Law), a married woman, by thecustom of London, engages in business on her own account, inpendentlyof her husband.
feminal: Feminine. [Obs.] West.
fen: Low land overflowed, or covered wholly or partially with water,but producing sedge, coarse grasses, or other aquatic plants; boggyland; moor; marsh.'Mid reedy fens wide spread. Wordsworth.
fenceful: Affording defense; defensive. [Obs.] Congreve.
fenian: A member of a secret organization, consisting mainly ofIrishment, having for its aim the overthrow of English rule inireland.
feracity: The state of being feracious or fruitful. [Obs.] Beattie.
feretory: A portable bier or shrine, variously adorned, used forcontaining relics of saints. Mollett.
fernery: A place for rearing ferns.
ferret: An animal of the Weasel family (Mustela or Putorius furo),about fourteen inches in length, of a pale yellow or white color,with red eyes. It is a native of Africa, but has been domesticated inEurope. Ferrets are used to drive rabbits and rats out of theirholes.
ferricyanic: Pertaining to, or derived from, a ferricyanide. Ferricyanicacid (Chem.), a brown crystalline substance, H6(CN)12Fe2, obtainedfrom potassium ferricyanide, and regarded as the type of theferricyanides; -- called also hydro-ferricyanic acid, hydrogenferricyanide, etc.
ferriferous: Producing or yielding iron.
ferrocalcite: Limestone containing a large percentage of iron carbonate, andhence turning brown on exposure.
ferule: A flat piece of wood, used for striking, children, esp. on thehand, in punishment.
fervence: Heat; fervency. [Obs.]
festal: Of or pertaining to a holiday or a feast; joyous; festive.You bless with choicer wine the festal day. Francis.
festoon: A carved ornament consisting of flowers, and leaves, intermixedor twisted together, wound with a ribbon, and hanging or depending ina natural curve. See Illust. of Bucranium.
festoony: Pertaining to, consisting of, or resembling, festoons. Sir J.Herschel.
festucine: Of a straw color; greenish yellow. [Obs.]A little insect of a festucine or pale green. Sir T. Browne.
festucous: Formed or consisting of straw. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
feudary: Held by, or pertaining to, feudal tenure.
feudatory: A tenant or vassal who held his lands of a superior oncondition of feudal service; the tenant of a feud or fief.The grantee . . . was styled the feudatory or vassal. Blackstone.[He] had for feudatories great princes. J. H. Newman.
fever: A diseased state of the system, marked by increased heat,acceleration of the pulse, and a general derangement of thefunctions, including usually, thirst and loss of appetite. Manydiseases, of which fever is the most prominent symptom, aredenominated fevers; as, typhoid fever; yellow fever.
fevery: Feverish. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
fiasco: A complete or ridiculous failure, esp. of a musicalperformance, or of any pretentious undertaking.
fibrilla: A minute thread of fiber, as one of the fibrous elements of amuscular fiber; a fibril.
fibrinoplastic: Like fibrinoplastin; capable of forming fibrin when brought incontact with fibrinogen.
fibrinoplastin: An albuminous substance, existing in the blood, which incombination with fibrinogen forms fibrin; -- called alsoparaglobulin.
fibrochondrosteal: Partly fibrous, partly cartilaginous, and partly osseous. St.George Mivart.
fibrolite: A silicate of alumina, of fibrous or columnar structure. It islike andalusite in composition; -- called also sillimanite, andbucholizite.
fickle: Not fixed or firm; liable to change; unstable; of a changeablemind; not firm in opinion or purpose; inconstant; capricious; as,Fortune's fickle wheel. Shak.They know how fickle common lovers are. Dryden.
fiddle: A stringed instrument of music played with a bow; a violin; akit.
fides: Faith personified as a goddess; the goddess of faith.
fidge: See Fidget. [R.] Swift.
fiendful: Full of fiendish spirit or arts. Marlowe.-- Fiend"ful*ly, adv.
fifer: One who plays on a fife.
figaro: An adroi
figary: A frolic; a vagary; a whim. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.
filiation: The assignment of a bastard child to some one as its ather;affiliation. Smart.
filiety: The relation of a son to a father; sonship; -- the correlativeof paternity. J. S. Mill.
fill: One of the thills or shafts of a carriage. Mortimer. Fillhorse, a thill horse. Shak.
financially: In a dfinancial manner. Burke.
findy: Full; heavy; firm; solid; substemtial. [Obs.]A cold May and a windy Makes the barn fat amd findy. Old Prover
finery: A charcoal hearth or furnace for the conversion of cast ironinto wrought iron, or into iron suitable for puddling.
fingered: Having leaflets like fingers; digitate.
finlander: A native or inhabitant of Finland.
finned: Having a fin, or fins, or anything resembling a fin. Mortimer.
fireplace: The part a chimney appropriated to the fire; a hearth; --usually an open recess in a wall, in which a fire may be built.
fireproof: Proof against fire; incombustible.
firlot: A dry measure formerly used in Scotland; the fourth part of aboll of grain or meal. The Linlithgow wheat firlot was to theimperial bushel as 998 to 1000; the barley firlot as 1456 to 1000.Brande & C.
fisetin: A yellow crystalline substance extracted from fustet, andregarded as its essential coloring principle; -- called also fiseticacid.
fishful: Abounding with fish. [R.] "My fishful pond." R. Carew.
fishlike: Like fish; suggestive of fish; having some of the qualities offish.A very ancient and fishlike smell. Shak.
fissility: Quality of being fissile.
fitter: A little piece; a flitter; a flinder. [Obs.]Where's the Frenchman Alas, he's all fitters. Beau. & Fl.
fitz: A son; -- used in compound names, to indicate paternity, esp.of the illegitimate sons of kings and princes of the blood; as,Fitzroy, the son of the king; Fitzclarence, the son of the duke ofClarence.
fixture: Anything of an accessory character annexed to houses and lands,so as to constitute a part of them. This term is, however, quitefrequently used in the peculiar sense of personal chattels annexed tolands and tenements, but removable by the person annexing them, orhis personal representatives. In this latter sense, the same thingsmay be fixtures under some circumstances, and not fixtures underothers. Wharton (Law Dict. ). Bouvier.
fixure: Fixed position; stable condition; firmness. [Obs.] Shak.
flabbergastation: The state of being flabbergasted. [Jocular] London Punch.
flabellate: Flabelliform.
flabellinerved: Having many nerves diverging radiately from the base; -- saidof a leaf.
flaccid: Yielding to pressure for want of firmness and stiffness; softand weak; limber; lax; drooping; flabby; as, a flaccid muscle;flaccid flesh.Religious profession . . . has become flacced. I. Taylor.-- Flac"cid*ly, adv.-- Flac"cid*ness, n.
flaky: Consisting of flakes or of small, loose masses; lying, orcleaving off, in flakes or layers; flakelike.What showers of mortal hail, what flaky fires! Watts.A flaky weight of winter's purest snows. Wordsworth.
flamingly: In a flaming manner.
flammeous: Pertaining to, consisting of, or resembling, flame. [Obs.] SirT. Browne.
flannen: Made or consisting of flannel. [Obs.] "Flannen robes." Dryden.
flaringly: In a flaring manner.
flashing: The creation of an artifical flood by the sudden letting in ofa body of water; -- called also flushing.
flask: The wooden or iron frame which holds the sand, etc., formingthe mold used in a foundry; it consists of two or more parts; viz.,the cope or top; sometimes, the cheeks, or middle part; and the drag,or bottom part. When there are one or more cheeks, the flask iscalled a three part flask, four part flask, etc. Erlenmeyer flask, athin glass flask, flat-bottomed and cone-shaped to allow of safelyshaking its contents laterally without danger of spilling; -- socalled from Erlenmeyer, a German chemist who invented it.-- Florence flask. Etym
flatuosity: Flatulence. [Obs.] Bacon.
flatware: Articles for the table, as china or silverware, that are moreor less flat, as distinguished from hollow ware.
flavous: Yellow. [Obs.]
flaxweed: See Toadflax.
fleamy: Bloody; clotted. [Obs. or Prov.]Foamy bubbling of a fleamy brain. Marston.
flectional: Capable of, or pertaining to, flection or inflection.A flectional word is a phrase in the bud. Earle.
fledge: Feathered; furnished with feathers or wings; able to fly.Hfledge with wings. Milton.
fleecer: One who fleeces or strips unjustly, especially by trickery orfraund. Prynne.
fleet: To slip on the whelps or the barrel of a capstan or windlass; -- said of a cable or hawser.
fleeting: Passing swiftly away; not durable; transient; transitory; as,the fleeting hours or moments.
flemer: One who, or that which, banishes or expels. [Obs.] Chaucer.
fleming: A native or inhabitant of Flanders.
fleshliness: The state of being fleshly; carnal passions and appetites.Spenser.
fleshy: Composed of firm pulp; succulent; as, the houseleek, cactus,and agave are fleshy plants.
flewed: Having large flews. Shak.
flexure: The last joint, or bend, of the wing of a bird.
flightiness: The state or quality of being flighty.The flightness of her temper. Hawthorne.
flimflam: A freak; a trick; a lie. Beau. & Fl.
flincher: One who flinches or fails.
flintware: A superior kind of earthenware into whose composition flintenters largely. Knight.
flipe: To turn inside out, or with the leg part back over the foot, asa stocking in pulling off or for putting on. [Scot.]
flippancy: The state or quality of being flippant.This flippancy of language. Bp. Hurd.
flite: To scold; to quarrel. [Prov. Eng.] Grose.
flittingly: In a flitting manner.
floatable: That may be floated.
flocculence: The state of being flocculent.
floor: That part of the bottom of a vessel on each side of the keelsonwhich is most nearly horizontal.
floorless: Having no floor.
floorwalker: One who walks about in a large retail store as an overseer anddirector. [U.S.]
floricultural: Pertaining to the cultivation of flowering plants.
floriken: An Indian bustard (Otis aurita). The Bengal floriken isSypheotides Bengalensis. [Written also florikan, floriken, florican.]
flotant: Represented as flying or streaming in the air; as, a bannerflotant.
flowerage: State of flowers; flowers, collectively or in general.Tennyson.
floweret: A small flower; a floret. Shak.
fluctuability: The capacity or ability to fluctuate. [R.] H. Walpole.
fluence: Fluency. [Obs.] Milton.
fluey: Downy; fluffy. [R.]
flugelman: Same as Fugleman.
flung: imp. & p. p. of Fling.
fluoboride: See Borofluoride.
fluorated: Combined with fluorine; subjected to the action of fluoride.[R.]
fly: That part of a compass on which the points are marked; thecompass card. Totten.
flybane: A kind of catchfly of the genus Silene; also, a poisonousmushroom (Agaricus muscarius); fly agaric.
flyboat: A large Dutch coasting vessel.Captain George Weymouth made a voyage of discovery to the northwestwith two flyboats. Purchas.
flying: Moving in the air with, or as with, wings; moving lightly orrapidly; intended for rapid movement.
flysch: A name given to the series of sandstones and schists overlyingthe true nummulitic formation in the Alps, and included in the EoceneTertiary.
foehood: Enmity. Br. Bedell.
foison: Rich harvest; plenty; abundance. [Archaic] Lowell.That from the seedness the bare fallow brings To teeming foison.Shak.
foliolate: Of or pertaining to leaflets; -- used in composition; as, bi-foliolate. Gray.
fontanelle: Same as Fontanel, 2.
foolhardise: Foolhardiness. [Obs.] Spenser.
footband: A band of foot soldiers. [Obs.]
footbath: A bath for the feet; also, a vessel used in bathing the feet.
footplate: See Footboard (a).
footstool: A low stool to support the feet of one when sitting.
foozle: To bungle; to manage awkwardly; to treat or play unskillfully;as, to foozle a stroke in golf.
forbear: An ancestor; a forefather; -- usually in the plural. [Scot.]"Your forbears of old." Sir W. Scott.
forbruise: To bruise sorely or exceedingly. [Obs.]All forbrosed, both back and side. Chaucer.
fordable: Capable of being forded.-- Ford"a*ble*ness, n.
fordry: Entirely dry; withered. [Obs.] "A tree fordry." Chaucer.
foreadmonish: To admonish beforehand, or before the act or event. Bp. Hall.
forechosen: Chosen beforehand.
foreconceive: To preconceive; to imagine beforehand. [Obs.] Bacon.
forefather: One who precedes another in the line of genealogy in anydegree, but usually in a remote degree; an ancestor.Respecting your forefathers, you would have been taught to respectyourselves. Burke.Forefathers' Day, the anniversary of the day (December 21) on whichthe Pilgrim Fathers landed at Plymouth, Massachusetts (1620). Onaccount of a mistake in reckoning the change from Old Style to NewStyle, it has generally been celebrated on the 22d.
foregift: A premium paid by
foreground: On a painting, and sometimes in a bas-relief, mosaic picture,or the like, that part of the scene represented, which is nearest tothe spectator, and therefore occupies the lowest part of the work ofart itself. Cf. Distance, n., 6.
foreigner: A person belonging to or owning allegiance to a foreigncountry; one not native in the country or jurisdiction underconsideration, or not naturalized there; an alien; a stranger.Joy is such a foreigner, So mere a stranger to my thoughts. Denham.Nor could the majesty of the English crown appear in a greaterluster, either to foreigners or subjects. Swift.
foreignism: Anything peculiar to a foreign language or people; a foreignidiom or custom.It is a pity to see the technicalities of the so-called liberalprofessions distigured by foreignisms. Fitzed. Hall.
forejudgment: Prejudgment. [Obs.] Spenser.
foreknow: To have previous knowledge of; to know beforehand.Who would the miseries of man foreknow Dryden.
foreman: The first or chief man; as:(a) The chief man of a jury, who acts as their speaker.(b) The chief of a set of hands employed in a shop, or on works ofany kind, who superintends the rest; an overseer.
forereach: To advance or gain upon; -- said of a vessel that gains uponanother when sailing closehauled.
foreshow: To show or exhibit beforehand; to give foreknowledge of; toprognosticate; to foretell.Your looks foreshow You have a gentle heart. Shak.Next, like Aurora, Spenser rose, Whose purple blush the dayforeshows. Denham.
foresight: Any sight or reading of the leveling staff, except thebacksight; any sight or bearing taken by a compass or theodolite in aforward direction.
forespeech: A preface. [Obs.] Sherwood.
forespurrer: One who rides before; a harbinger. [Obs.] Shak.
forestaller: One who forestalls; esp., one who forestalls the market. Locke.
forewaste: See Forewaste. Gascoigne.
forfend: To prohibit; to forbid; to avert. [Archaic]Which peril heaven forefend! Shak.
forfete: To incur a penalty; to transgress. [Obs.]And all this suffered our Lord Jesus Christ that never forfeted.Chaucer.
forgave: imp. of Forgive.
forgetfully: In a forgetful manner.
forinsecal: Foreign; alien. [Obs.] Bp. Burnet.
forky: Opening into two or more parts or shoots; forked; furcated."Forky tongues." Pope.
forlornness: State of being forlorn. Boyle.
formalist: One overattentive to forms, or too much confined to them; esp.,one who rests in external religious forms, or observes strictly theoutward forms of worship, without possessing the life and spirit ofreligion.As far a formalist from wisdom sits, In judging eyes, as libertinesfrom wits. Young.
formicary: The nest or dwelling of a swarm of ants; an ant-hill.
forswonk: Overlabored; exhausted; worn out. [Obs.] Spenser.
forthcoming: Ready or about to appear; making appearance.
fortify: To raise defensive works. Milton.
fortissimo: Very loud; with the utmost strength or loudness.
fortlet: A little fort. [R.] Bailey.
fortuitous: Happening independently of human will or means of foresight;resulting from unavoidable physical causes. Abbott.
fortuity: Accident; chance; casualty. D. Forbes (1750).
fortuneless: Luckless; also, destitute of a fortune or portion. Spenser.
forwardly: Eagerly; hastily; obtrusively.
fossane: A species of civet (Viverra fossa) resembling the genet.
fossilized: Converted into a fossil; antiquated; firmly fixed in views oropinions.A fossilized sample of confused provincialism. Earle.
foule: Foully. [Obs.] Chaucer.
founder: One who founds, establishes, and erects; one who lays afoundation; an author; one from whom anything originates; one whoendows.
foundling: A deserted or exposed infant; a child found without a parent orowner. Foundling hospital, a hospital for foundlings.
foursome: Consisting of four; requiring four participants. [Scot. orGolf]
foveolated: Foveolate.
fozy: Spongy; soft; fat and puffy. [Scot.]
fragmented: Broken into fragments.
fragor: A strong or sweet scent. [Obs. & Illegitimate.] Sir T. Herbert.
fraised: Fortified with a fraise.
frangipane: A perfume derived from, or imitating the odor of, the flower ofthe red jasmine, a West Indian tree of the genus Plumeria.
frapler: A blusterer; a rowdy. [Obs.]Unpolished, a frapler, and base. B. Jonson.
fratricide: One who murders or kills his own brother.
fraulein: In Germany, a young lady; an unmarried woman; -- as a title,equivalent to Miss.
freedstool: See Fridstol.
freer: One who frees, or sets free.
freezer: One who, or that which, cools or freezes, as a refrigerator, orthe tub and can used in the process of freezing ice cream.
frelte: Frailty. [Obs.] Chaucer.
fren: A stranger. [Obs.] Spenser.
frenzy: Any violent agitation of the mind approaching to distraction;violent and temporary derangement of the mental faculties; madness;rage.All else is towering frenzy and distraction. Addison.The poet's eye in a fine frenzy rolling. Shak.
friation: The act of breaking up or pulverizing.
friendlily: In a friendly manner. Pope.
frill: To wrinkle; -- said of the gelatin film.
fripper: One who deals in frippery or in old clothes. [Obs.] Bacon.
fritinancy: A chirping or creaking, as of a cricket. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
fritting: The formation of frit or slag by heat with but incipientfusion.
frockless: Destitute of a frock.
frogshell: One of numerous species of marine gastropod shells, belongingto Ranella and allied genera.
frolicsome: Full of gayety and mirth; given to pranks; sportive.Old England, who takes a frolicsome brain fever once every two orthree years, for the benefit of her doctors. Sir W. Scott.-- Frol"ic*some*ly, adv.-- Frol"ic*some*ness, n.
fronded: Furnished with fronds. "Fronded palms." Whittier.
frondent: Covered with leaves; leafy; as, a frondent tree. [R.]
fronton: Same as Frontal, 2.
froppish: Peevish; froward. [Obs.] Clarendon.
frostbite: The freezing, or effect of a freezing, of some part of thebody, as the ears or nose. Kane.
frosted: Covered with hoarfrost or anything resembling hoarfrost;ornamented with frosting; also, frost-bitten; as, a frosted cake;frosted glass.Frosted work is introduced as a foil or contrast to burnished work.Knight.
frowy: Musty. rancid; as, frowy butter. "Frowy feed." Spenser
frowzy: Slovenly; unkempt; untidy; frouzy. "With head all frowzy."Spenser.The frowzy soldiers' wives hanging out clothes. W. D. Howells.
frozenness: A state of being frozen.
fructuary: One who enjoys the profits, income, or increase of anything.Kings are not proprietors nor fructuaries. Prynne.
frugally: Thriftily; prudently.
frustratory: Making void; rendering null; as, a frustratory appeal. [Obs.]Ayliffe.
fubbery: Cheating; deception. Marston.
fuchsia: A genus of flowering plants having elegant drooping flowers,with four sepals, four petals, eight stamens, and a single pistil.They are natives of Mexico and South America. Double-floweredvarieties are now common in cultivation.
fuchsine: Aniline red; an artificial coal-tar dyestuff, of a metallicgreen color superficially, resembling cantharides, but when dissolvedforming a brilliant dark red. It consists of a hydrochloride oracetate of rosaniline. See Rosaniline.
fucusol: An oily liquid, resembling, and possibly identical with,furfurol, and obtained from fucus, and other seaweeds.
fueler: One who, or that which, supplies fuel. [R.] [Written alsofueller.] Donne.
fuga: A fugue.
fuguist: A musician who composes or performs fugues. Busby.
fulimart: Same as Foumart.
fulling: The process of cleansing, shrinking, and thickening cloth bymoisture, heat, and pressure. Fulling mill, a mill for fulling clothas by means of pesties or stampers, which alternately fall into andrise from troughs where the cloth is placed with hot water andfuller's earth, or other cleansing materials.
fulness: See Fullness.
fumacious: Smoky; hence, fond of smoking; addicted to smoking tobacco.
fumerell: See Femerell.
fumily: Smokily; with fume.
funeration: The act of burying with funeral rites. [Obs.] Knatchbull.
fungi: See Fungus.
fungologist: A mycologist.
furfurol: A colorless oily liquid, C4H3O.CHO, of a pleasant odor,obtained by the distillation of bran, sugar, etc., and regarded as analdehyde derivative of furfuran; -- called also furfural.
furibundal: Full of rage. [Obs.] G. Harvey.
furioso: With great force or vigor; vehemently.
furlong: A measure of length; the eighth part of a mile; forty rods; twohundred and twenty yards.
furniture: A mixed or compound stop in an organ; -- sometimes calledmixture.
furoin: A colorless, crystalline substance, C10H8O4, from furfurol.
furrier: A dealer in furs; one who makes or sells fur goods.
furthest: superl. Most remote; most in advance; farthest. See Further, a.
furtively: Stealthily by theft. Lover.
fusarole: A molding generally placed under the echinus or quarter roundof capitals in the Doric, Ionic, and Corinthian orders ofarchitecture.
fusee: A small packet of explosive material with wire appendagesallowing it to be conveniently attached to a railroad track. It willexplode with a loud report when run over by a train, and is used toprovide a warning signal to the engineer.
fusillade: A simultaneous discharge of firearms.
fusted: Moldy; ill-smelling. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
fustigate: To cudgel. [R.] Bailey.
fustigation: A punishment by beating with a stick or club; cudgeling.This satire, composed of actual fustigation. Motley.
futurable: Capable of being future; possible to occur. [R.]Not only to things future, but futurable. Fuller.
fuze: A tube, filled with combustible matter, for exploding a shell,etc. See Fuse, n. Chemical fuze, a fuze in which substances separateduntil required for action are then brought into contact, and unitingchemically, produce explosion.-- Concussion fuze, a fuze ignited by the striking of theprojectile.-- Electric fuze, a fuze which is ignited by heat or a sparkproduced by an electric current.-- Friction fuze, a fuze which is ignited by the heat evolved byfriction.-- Percussion fuze, a fuze in which the ignition is produced by ablow on some fulminating compound.-- Time fuze, a fuze adapted, either by its length or by thecharacter of its composition, to burn a certain time before producingan explosion.
gabarage: A kind of coarse cloth for packing goods. [Obs.]
gabert: A lighter, or vessel for inland navigation. [Scot.] Jamieson.
gadbee: The gadfly.
gadic: Pertaining to, or derived from, the cod (Gadus); -- applied toan acid obtained from cod-liver oil, viz., gadic acid.
gagger: A piece of iron imbedded in the sand of a mold to keep the sandin place.
gaiety: Same as Gayety.
gain: A square or beveled notch cut out of a girder, binding joist,or other timber which supports a floor beam, so as to receive the endof the floor beam.
gainable: Capable of being obtained or reached. Sherwood.
gaiter: To dress with gaiters.
galactophagist: One who eats, or subsists on, milk.
galage: See Galoche. Spenser.
galaxy: The Milky Way; that luminous tract, or belt, which is seen atnight stretching across the heavens, and which is composed ofinnumerable stars, so distant and blended as to be distinguishableonly with the telescope. The term has recently been used for remoteclusters of stars. Nichol.
gallant: Polite and attentive to ladies; courteous to women; chivalrous.
galley: A vessel propelled by oars, whether having masts and sails ornot; as:(a) A large vessel for war and national purposes; -- common in theMiddle Ages, and down to the 17th century.(b) A name given by analogy to the Greek, Roman, and other ancientvessels propelled by oars.(c) A light, open boat used on the Thames by customhouse officers,press gangs, and also for pleasure.(d) One of the small boats carried by a man-of-war.
gallivat: A small armed vessel, with sails and oars, -- used on theMalabar coast. A. Chalmers.
gallon: A measure of capacity, containing four quarts; -- used, for themost part, in liquid measure, but sometimes in dry measure.
gallow: To fright or terrify. See Gally, v. t. [Obs.] Shak.
gally: To frighten; to worry. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] T. Brown.
gallygaskins: See Galligaskins.
galsome: Angry; malignant. [Obs.] Bp. Morton.
galvanization: The act of process of galvanizing.
galvanizer: One who, or that which, galvanize.
galvanographic: Of or pertaining to galvanography.
galvanotropism: The tendency of a root to place its axis in the line of agalvanic current.
gam: To have a gam with; to pay a visit to, esp. among whalers atsea.
gamba: A viola da gamba.
gambler: One who gambles.
gambroon: A kind of twilled linen cloth for lining. Simmonds.
gamin: A neglected and untrained city boy; a young street Arab.In Japan, the gamins run after you, and say, 'Look at the Chinaman.'L. Oliphant.
gammadion: A cross formed of four capital gammas, formerly used as amysterious ornament on ecclesiastical vestments, etc. See Fylfot.
ganch: To drop from a high place upon sharp stakes or hooks, as theTurks dropped malefactors, by way of punishment.Ganching, which is to let fall from on high upon hooks, and there tohang until they die. Sandys.
ganglionary: Ganglionic.
ganil: A kind of brittle limestone. [Prov. Eng.] Kirwan.
gapesing: Act of gazing about; sightseeing. [Prov. Eng.]
gare: Coarse wool on the legs of sheep. Blount.
gargol: A distemper in swine; garget. Mortimer.
garland: To deck with a garland. B. Jonson.
garmenture: Clothing; dress.
garrote: A Spanish mode of execution by strangulation, with an ironcollar affixed to a post and tightened by a screw until life becomeextinct; also, the instrument by means of which the punishment isinflicted.
garum: A sauce made of small fish. It was prized by the ancients.
garvie: The spart; -- called also garvie herring, and garvock. [Prov.Eng. & Scot.]
gaseity: State of being gaseous. [R] Eng. Cyc.
gash: To make a gash, or long, deep incision in; -- applied chieflyto incisions in flesh.Grievously gashed or gored to death. Hayward.
gasolene: See Gasoline.
gastight: So tightly fitted as to preclude the escape of gas; imperviousto gas.
gastroscope: An instrument for viewing or examining the interior of thestomach.
gastrotrocha: A form of annelid larva having cilia on the ventral side.
gastrovascular: Having the structure, or performing the functions, both ofdigestive and circulatory organs; as, the gastrovascular cavity ofcoelenterates.
gastrurous: Pertaining to the Gastrura.
gate: The places which command the entrances or access; hence, placeof vantage; power; might.The gates of hell shall not prevail against it. Matt. xvi. 18.
gatehouse: A house connected or associated with a gate.
gauche: Winding; twisted; warped; -- applied to curves and surfaces.
gauffering: A mode of plaiting or fluting. Gauffering iron, a kind offluting iron for fabrics.-- Gauffering press (Flower Manuf.), a press for crimping the leavesand petals into shape.
gauffre: A gopher, esp. the pocket gopher.
gauge: To measure the dimensions of, or to test the accuracy of theform of, as of a part of a gunlock.The vanes nicely gauged on each side. Derham.
gauntletted: Wearing a gauntlet.
gauze: A very thin, slight, transparent stuff, generally of silk;also, any fabric resembling silk gauze; as, wire gauze; cotton gauze.Gauze dresser, one employed in stiffening gauze.
gauzy: Pertaining to, or resembling, gauze; thin and slight as gauze.
gaysome: Full of gayety. Mir. for Mag.
gaze: To fixx the eyes in a steady and earnest look; to look witheagerness or curiosity, as in admiration, astonishment, or withstudious attention.Why stand ye gazing up into heaven Acts i. 11.
gazet: A Venetian coin, worth about three English farthings, or oneand a half cents. [Obs.]
gazon: One of the pieces of sod used to line or cover parapets and thefaces of earthworks.
gecko: Any lizard of the family Geckonidæ. The geckoes are small,carnivorous, mostly nocturnal animals with large eyes and vertical,elliptical pupils. Their toes are generally expanded, and furnishedwith adhesive disks, by which they can run over walls and ceilings.They are numerous in warm countries, and a few species are found inEurope and the United States. See Wall gecko, Fanfoot.
geckotian: A gecko.
geest: Alluvial matter on the surface of land, not of recent origin.R. Jameson.
gein: See Humin.
gelastic: Pertaining to laughter; used in laughing. "Gelastic muscles."Sir T. Browne.
gelatiniferous: Yielding gelatin on boiling with water; capable ofgelatination.
gelseminic: Pertaining to, or derived from, the yellow jasmine (Gelsemiumsempervirens); as, gelseminic acid, a white crystalline substanceresembling esculin.
gemel: Coupled; paired. Bars gemel (Her.), two barrulets placed nearand parallel to each other.
geminate: In pairs or twains; two together; binate; twin; as, geminateflowers. Gray.
geminiflorous: Having the flowers arranged in pairs.
gemmiflorate: Having flowers like buds.
gemmuliferous: Bearing or producing gemmules or buds.
gendarmery: The body of gendarmes.
generability: Capability of being generated. Johnstone.
generalized: Comprising structural characters which are separated in morespecialized forms; synthetic; as, a generalized type.
geniculated: Same as Geniculate.
genitocrural: Pertaining to the genital organs and the thigh; -- appliedespecially to one of the lumbar nerves.
genre: A style of painting, sculpture, or other imitative art, whichillustrates everyday life and manners.
gentianaceous: Of or pertaining to a natural order of plants (Gentianaceæ) ofwhich the gentian is the type.
gentilly: In a gentle or hoble manner; frankly. [Obs.] Chaucer.
geophagism: The act or habit of eating earth. See Dirt eating, under Dirt.Dunglison.
gerboa: The jerboa.
germanization: The act of Germanizing. M. Arnold.
germen: See Germ.
gerund: A verbal noun ending in -e, preceded by to and usually denotingpurpose or end; -- called also the dative infinitive; as, "Ic hæbbemete tô etanne" (I have meat to eat.) In Modern English the name hasbeen applied to verbal or participal nouns in -ing denoting atransitive action; e. g., by throwing a stone.
gerundial: Pertaining to, or resembling, a gerund; as, a gerundial use.
gestant: Bearing within; laden; burdened; pregnant. [R.] "Clouds gestantwith heat." Mrs. Browning.
gesticulator: One who gesticulates.
gesticulatory: Representing by, or belonging to, gestures. T. Warton.
geusdism: The Marxian socialism and programme of reform throughrevolution as advocated by the French political leader Jules BasileGuesde (pron. ged) (1845- ). -- Guesd"ist (#), n. & a.
geyserite: A loose hydrated form of silica, a variety of opal, depositedin concretionary cauliflowerlike masses, around some hot springs andgeysers.
ghetto: The Jews'quarter in an Italian town or city.I went to the Ghetto, where the Jews dwell. Evelyn.
ghostliness: The quality of being ghostly.
ghostly: Spiritually; mystically. Chaucer.
gibbsite: A hydrate of alumina.
giddily: In a giddy manner.
gieseckite: A mineral occurring in greenish gray six-sided prisms, having agreasy luster. It is probably a pseudomorph after elæolite.
gig: A fiddle. [Obs.]
gigantology: An account or description of giants.
gigantomachy: A war of giants; especially, the fabulous war of the giantsagainst heaven.
giggler: One who giggles or titters.
gill: An organ for aquatic respiration; a branchia.Fishes perform respiration under water by the gills. Ray.
gilt: A female pig, when young.
giltif: Guilty. [Obs.] Chaucer.
gimmal: Made or consisting of interlocked rings, gimmal mail.In their pale dull mouths the gimmal bit Lies foul with chewed grass.Shak.Gimmal joint. See Gimbal joint, under Gimbal.
gin: Against; near by; towards; as, gin night. [Scot.] A. Ross(1778).
ginnet: See Genet, a horse.
gise: To feed or pasture. [Obs.]
git: See Geat.
glairy: Like glair, or partaking of its qualities; covered with glair;viscous and transparent; slimy. Wiseman.
glandered: Affected with glanders; as, a glandered horse. Yu
glasshouse: A house where glass is made; a commercial house that deals inglassware.
glaucic: Of or pertaining to the Glaucium or horned poppy; -- formerlyapplied to an acid derived from it, now known to be fumaric acid.
glaum: To grope with the hands, as in the dark. [Scot.] To glaum at,to grasp or snatch at; to aspire to.Wha glaum'd at kingdoms three. Burns.
gleamy: Darting beams of light; casting light in rays; flashing;coruscating.In brazed arms, that cast a gleamy ray, Swift through the town thewarrior bends his way. Pope.
gleba: The chambered sporogenous tissue forming the central mass ofthe sporophore in puff balls, stinkhorns, etc.
gleed: A live or glowing coal; a glede. [Archaic] Chaucer. Longfellow.
gleek: An enticing look or glance. [Obs.]A pretty gleek coming from Pallas' eye. Beau. & Fl.
glent: See Glint.
globularness: Sphericity; globosity.
globule: A minute spherical or rounded structure; as blood, lymph, andpus corpuscles, minute fungi, spores, etc.
globuliferous: Bearing globules; in geology, used of rocks, and denoting avariety of concretionary structure, where the concretions areisolated globules and evenly distributed through the texture of therock.
gloriation: Boast; a triumphing. [Obs.] Bp. Richardson.Internal gloriation or triumph of the mind. Hobbes.
gloried: Illustrious; honorable; noble. [Obs.] Milton.
glossator: A writer of glosses or comments; a commentator. [R.] "The . . .glossators of Aristotle." Milman.
glover: One whose trade it is to make or sell gloves. Glover's sutureor stitch, a kind of stitch used in sewing up wounds, in which thethread is drawn alternately through each side from within outward.
glowingly: In a glowing manner; with ardent heat or passion.
glowlamp: An aphlogistic lamp. See Aphlogistic.
gluer: One who cements with glue.
glutazine: A nitrogenous substance, forming a heavy, sandy powder, whiteor nearly so. It is a derivative of pyridine.
gluteal: Pertaining to, or in the region of, the glutæus.
gluteus: Same as Glutæus.
glutination: The act of uniting with glue; sticking together.
glutton: A carnivorous mammal (Gulo luscus), of the family Mustelidæ,about the size of a large badger. It was formerly believed to beinordinately voracious, whence the name; the wolverene. It is anative of the northern parts of America, Europe, and Asia. Gluttonbird (Zoöl.), the giant fulmar (Ossifraga gigantea); -- called alsoMother Carey's goose, and mollymawk.
gluttonize: To eat to excess; to eat voraciously; to gormandize. Hallywell.
glycerite: A medicinal preparation made by mixing or dissolving asubstance in glycerin.
glyph: A sunken channel or groove, usually vertical. See Triglyph.
glyphography: A process similar to etching, in which, by means of voltaicelectricity, a raised copy of a drawing is made, so that it can beused to print from.
glyptodon: An extinct South American quaternary mammal, allied to thearmadillos. It was as large as an ox, was covered with tessellatedscales, and had fluted teeth. Owen.
gnathopodite: Any leglike appendage of a crustacean, when modified wholly, orin part, to serve as a jaw, esp. one of the maxillipeds.
gnomically: In a gnomic, didactic, or sententious manner.
gnomology: A collection of, or a treatise on, maxims, grave sentences, orreflections. [Obs.] Milton.
gnomon: The style or pin, which by its shadow, shows the hour of theday. It is usually set parallel to the earth's axis.
gnomonically: According to the principles of the gnomonic projection.
goad: A pointed instrument used to urge on a beast; hence, anynecessity that urges or stimulates.The daily goad urging him to the daily toil. Macaulay.
goaf: That part of a mine from which the mineral has been partiallyor wholly removed; the waste left in old workings; -- called also gob. To work the goaf or gob, to remove the pillars of mineral matterpreviously left to support the roof, and replace them with props.Ure.
gobbet: A mouthful; a lump; a small piece. Spenser.[He] had broken the stocks to small gobbets. Wyclif.
gobbetly: In pieces. [Obs.] Huloet.
goblinize: To transform into a goblin. [R.] Lowell.
godild: A corruption of God yield, i. e., God reward or bless. Shak.
godlike: Resembling or befitting a god or God; divine; hence,preeminently good; as, godlike virtue.-- God"like`ness, n.
godwit: One of several species of long-billed, wading birds of thegenus Limosa, and family Tringidæ. The European black-tailed godwit(Limosa limosa), the American marbled godwit (L. fedoa), theHudsonian godwit (L. hæmastica), and others, are valued as gamebirds. Called also godwin.
goldtit: See Verdin.
golf: A game played with a small ball and a bat or club crooked atthe lower end. He who drives the ball into each of a series of smallholes in the ground and brings it into the last hole with the feweststrokes is the winner. [Scot.] Strutt.
gomer: A Hebrew measure. See Homer.
gondolet: A small gondola. T. Moore.
gonimous: Pertaining to, or containing, gonidia or gonimia, as that partof a lichen which contains the green or chlorophyll-bearing cells.
goodly: Excellently. [Obs.] Spenser.
goodness: The quality of being good in any of its various senses;excellence; virtue; kindness; benevolence; as, the goodness oftimber, of a soil, of food; goodness of character, of disposition, ofconduct, etc.
goodship: Favor; grace. [Obs.] Gower.
gorget: A crescent-shaped, colored patch on the neck of a bird ormammal. Gorget hummer (Zoöl.), a humming bird of the genus Trochilus.See Rubythroat.
gosherd: One who takes care of geese.
gossan: Decomposed rock, usually reddish or ferruginous (owing tooxidized pyrites), forming the upper part of a metallic vein.
got: imp. & p. p. of Get. See Get.
goth: One of an ancient Teutonic race, who dwelt between the Elbe andthe Vistula in the early part of the Christian era, and who overranand took an important part in subverting the Roman empire.
gothamist: A wiseacre; a person deficient in wisdom; -- so called fromGotham, in Nottinghamshire, England, noted for some pleasantblunders. Bp. Morton.
gout: A constitutional disease, occurring by paroxysms. It constistsin an inflammation of the fibrous and ligamentous parts of thejoints, and almost always attacks first the great toe, next thesmaller joints, after which, it may attack the greater articulations.It is attended with various sympathettic phenomena, particularly inthe digestive organs. It may also attack internal organs, as thestomach, the intestines, etc. Dunglison.
graceful: Displaying grace or beauty in form or action; elegant; easy;agreeable in appearance; as, a graceful walk, deportment, speaker,air, act, speech.High o'er the rest in arms the graceful Turnus rode. Dryden.-- Grace"ful*ly, adv. Grace"ful*ness, n.
graciousness: Quality of being gracious.
gradational: By regular steps or gradations; of or pertaining to gradation.
gradely: Decent; orderly. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.-- adv.
graffer: a notary or scrivener. Bowvier.
grail: A book of offices in the Roman Catholic Church; a gradual.[Obs.] T. Warton.Such as antiphonals, missals, grails, processionals, etc. Strype.
graining: The process of separating soap from spent lye, as with salt.
grammar: To discourse according to the rules of grammar; to use grammar.[Obs.] Beau. & Fl.
granadilla: The fruit of certain species of passion flower (esp. Passifloraquadrangularis) found in Brazil and the West Indies. It is as largeas a child's head, and is a good dessert fruit. The fruit ofPassiflora edulis is used for flavoring ices.
granate: See Garnet.
granatite: See Staurolite.
grandeur: The state or quality of being grand; vastness; greatness;splendor; magnificence; stateliness; sublimity; dignity; elevation ofthought or expression; nobility of action.Nor doth this grandeur and majestic show Of luxury . . . allure mineeye. Milton.
grandnephew: The grandson of one's brother or sister.
granitification: The act or the process of forming into granite. Humble.
granitoid: Resembling granite in granular appearance; as, granitoidgneiss; a granitoid pavement.
grant: To assent; to consent. [Obs.] Chaucer.
granulate: To collect or be formed into grains; as, cane juice granulatesinto sugar.
grapeless: Wanting grapes or the flavor of grapes.
grapevine: A vine or climbing shrub, of the genus Vitis, having smallgreen flowers and lobed leaves, and bearing the fruit called grapes.
grapholite: Any species of slate suitable to be written on.
graphophone: A kind of photograph.
graspable: Capable of being grasped.
grassless: Destitute of grass.
gratin: The brown crust formed upon a gratinated dish; also, dishitself, as crusts bread, game, or poultry.
graves: The sediment of melted tallow. Same as Greaves.
gravic: Pertaining to, or causing, gravitation; as, gravic forces;gravic attraction. [R.]
graybeard: An old man. Shak.
grayling: A European fish (Thymallus vulgaris), allied to the trout, buthaving a very broad dorsal fin; -- called also umber. It inhabitscold mountain streams, and is valued as a game fish.And here and there a lusty trout, And here and there a grayling.Tennyson.
grecque: An ornament supposed to be of Greek origin, esp. a fret ormeander,
greensward: Turf green with grass.
greet: Great. [Obs.] Chaucer.
grenade: A hollow ball or shell of iron filled with powder of otherexplosive, ignited by means of a fuse, and thrown from the hand amongenemies. Hand grenade. (a) A small grenade of iron or glass, usuallyabout two and a half inches in diameter, to be thrown from the handinto the head of a sap, trenches, covered way, or upon besiegersmounting a breach. (b) A portable fire extinguisher consisting of aglass bottle containing water and gas. It is thrown into the flames.Called also fire grenade. Rampart grenades, grenades of varioussizes, which, when used, are rolled over the pararapet in a trough.
greve: A grove. [Obs.] Chaucer.
gridiron: An openwork frame on which vessels are placed for examination,cleaning, and repairs. 3. (Sport)
grim: Of forbidding or fear-inspiring aspect; fierce; stern; surly;cruel; frightful; horrible.Whose grim aspect sets every joint a-shaking. Shak.The ridges of grim war. Milton.
grimness: Fierceness of look; sternness; crabbedness; forbiddingness.
grinner: One who grins. Addison.
grinningly: In a grinning manner.
griper: One who gripes; an oppressor; an extortioner. Burton.
gripingly: In a griping or oppressive manner. Bacon.
griseous: Of a light color, or white, mottled with black or brown;grizzled or grizzly. Maunder.
gristle: Cartilage. See Cartilage. Bacon.
grolier: The name by which Jean Grolier de Servier (1479-1565), a Frenchbibliophile, is commonly known; -- used in naming a certain style ofbinding, a design, etc.
gromet: Same as Grommet.
grouting: The process of filling in or finishing with grout; also, thegrout thus filled in. Gwilt.
grouty: Cross; sulky; sullen. [Colloq.]
grudgingly: In a grudging manner.
gruel: A light, liquid food, made by boiling meal of maize, oatmeal,or fiour in water or milk; thin porridge.
grumose: Clustered in grains at intervals; grumous.
grundyism: Narrow and unintelligent conventionalism. -- Grun"dy*ist, n.
gruntle: To grunt; to grunt repeatedly. [Obs.]
gruntling: A young hog.
guaiac: Pertaining to, or resembling, guaiacum.-- n. Guaiacum.
guaniferous: Yielding guano. Ure.
guaranine: An alkaloid extracted from guarana. Same as Caffeine.
guardage: Wardship [Obs.] Shak.
guessable: Capable of being guessed.
guillemot: One of several northern sea birds, allied to the auks. Theyhave short legs, placed far back, and are expert divers and swimmers.
gullible: Easily gulled; that may be duped.-- Gul"li*bii`i*ty, n. Burke.
gulp: To swallow eagerly, or in large draughts; to swallow up; totake down at one swallow.He does not swallow, but he gulps it down. Cowper.The old man . . . glibly gulped down the whole narrative. Fielding.To gulp up, to throw up from the stomach; to disgorge.
gulph: See Gulf.
gummosity: Gumminess; a viscous or adhesive quality or nature. [R.]Floyer.
gunflint: A sharpened flint for the lock of a gun, to ignite the charge.It was in common use before the introduction of percussion caps.
gunnie: Space left by the removal of ore.
gunpowder: A black, granular, explosive substance, consisting of anintimate mechanical mixture of niter, charcoal, and sulphur. It isused in gunnery and blasting.
gurjun: A thin balsam or wood oil derived from the Diptcrocarpus lævis,an East Indian tree. It is used in medicine, and as a substitute forlinseed oil in the coarser kinds of paint.
gustatory: Pertaining to, or subservient to, the sense of taste; as, thegustatory nerve which supplies the front of the tongue.
gutter: To become channeled, as a candle when the flame flares in thewind.
guze: A roundlet of tincture sanguine, which is blazoned withoutmention of the tincture.
gymnasiarch: An Athenian officer who superintended the gymnasia, andprovided the oil and other necessaries at his own expense.
gymnite: A hydrous silicate of magnesia.
gymnonoti: The order of fishes which includes the Gymnotus or electricaleel. The dorsal fin is wanting.
gynandromorph: An animal affected with gynandromorphism,
gynecian: Of or relating to women.
gynecology: The science which treats of the structure and diseases ofwomen.-- Gyn`e*col"o*gist.
gynno: To begin. See Gin. [Obs.]
gynobasic: Pertaining to, or having, a gynobase.
gypse: See Gypsum. [Obs.] Pococke.
h: the eighth letter of the English alphabet, is classed among theconsonants, and is formed with the mouth organs in the same positionas that of the succeeding vowel. It is used with certain consonantsto form digraphs representing sounds which are not found in thealphabet, as sh, th, th, as in shall, thing, thine (for zh see §274);also, to modify the sounds of some other letters, as when placedafter c and p, with the former of which it represents a compoundsound like that of tsh, as in charm (written also tch as in catch),with the latter, the sound of f, as in phase, phantom. In some words,mostly derived or introduced from foreign languages, h following cand g indicates that those consonants have the hard sound before e,i, and y, as in chemistry, chiromancy, chyle, Ghent, Ghibelline,etc.; in some others, ch has the sound of sh, as in chicane. SeeGuide to Pronunciation, §§ 153, 179, 181-3, 237-8.
haaf: The deepsea fishing for cod, ling, and tusk, off the ShetlandIsles.
haberdine: A cod salted and dried. Ainsworth.
habilatory: Of or pertaining to clothing; wearing clothes. Ld. Lytton.
hadder: Heather; heath. [Obs.] Burton.
haemacytometer: An apparatus for determining the number of corpuscles in agiven quantity of blood.
haemin: Same as Hemin.
haemochromometer: An apparatus for measuring the amount of hemoglobin in a fluid,by comparing it with a solution of known strength and of normalcolor.
haemoplastic: Same as Hæmatoplastic.
hagfish: See Hag, 4.
haggis: A Scotch pudding made of the heart, liver, lights, etc., of asheep or lamb, minced with suet, onions, oatmeal, etc., highlyseasoned, and boiled in the stomach of the same animal; minced headand pluck. [Written also haggiss, haggess, and haggies.]
hagiarchy: A sacred government; by holy orders of men. Southey.
hagiologist: One who treats of the sacred writings; a writer of the lives ofthe saints; a hagiographer. Tylor.Hagiologists have related it without scruple. Southey.
hah: Same as Ha.
haikal: The central chapel of the three forming the sanctuary of aCoptic church. It contains the high altar, and is usually closed byan embroidered curtain.
haikwan: Chinese maritime customs.
hailstorm: A storm accompanied with hail; a shower of hail.
hairbell: See Harebell.
hairbrained: See Harebrained.
hairdresser: One who dresses or cuts hair; a barber.
hairtail: Any species of marine fishes of the genus Trichiurus; esp., T.lepterus of Europe and America. They are long and like a band, with aslender, pointed tail. Called also bladefish.
haitian: See Haytian.
halacha: The general term for the Hebrew oral or traditional law; one oftwo branches of exposition in the Midrash. See Midrash.
halberdier: One who is armed with a halberd. Strype.
halichondriae: An order of sponges, having simple siliceous spicules andkeratose fibers; -- called also Keratosilicoidea.
haliography: Description of the sea; the science that treats of the sea.
hallelujatic: Pertaining to, or containing, hallelujahs. [R.]
halloysite: A claylike mineral, occurring in soft, smooth, amorphousmasses, of a whitish color.
hallucinatory: Partaking of, or tending to produce, hallucination.
halter: One who halts or limps
halved: Appearing as if one side, or one half, were cut away;dimidiate.
hamated: Hooked, or set with hooks; hamate. Swift.
hamble: To hamstring. [Obs.]
hammer: That part of a gunlock which strikes the percussion cap, orfiring pin; the cock; formerly, however, a piece of steel coveringthe pan of a flintlock musket and struck by the flint of the cock toignite the priming.(e) Also, a person of thing that smites or shatters; as, St.Augustine was the hammer of heresies.He met the stern legionaries [of Rome] who had been the "massive ironhammers" of the whole earth. J. H. Newman.Atmospheric hammer, a dead-stroke hammer in which the spring isformed by confined air.-- Drop hammer, Face hammer, etc. See under Drop, Face, etc.-- Hammer fish. See Hammerhead.-- Hammer hardening, the process of hardening metal by hammering itwhen cold.-- Hammer shell (Zoöl.), any species of Malleus, a genus of marinebivalve shells, allied to the pearl oysters, having the wings narrowand elongated, so as to give them a hammer-shaped outline; -- calledalso hammer oyster.-- To bring to the hammer, to put up at auction.
hammerkop: A bird of the Heron family; the umber.
hamper: A large basket, usually with a cover, used for the packing andcarrying of articles; as, a hamper of wine; a clothes hamper; anoyster hamper, which contains two bushels.
hamulate: Furnished with a small hook; hook-shaped. Gray.
hamulus: A hook, or hooklike process.
hand: The small part of a gunstock near the lock, which is grasped bythe hand in taking aim.
handcraftsman: A handicraftsman.
handfish: The frogfish.
handicap: To encumber with a handicap in any contest; hence, in general,to place at disadvantage; as, the candidate was heavily handicapped.
handsaw: A saw used with one hand.
hankeringly: In a hankering manner.
haphazard: Extra hazard; chance; accident; random.We take our principles at haphazard, upon trust. Locke.
haphtarah: One of the lessons from the Nebiim (or Prophets) read in theJewish synagogue on Sabbaths, feast days, fasts, and the ninth of Ab,at the end of the service, after the parashoth, or lessons from theLaw. Such a practice is evidenced in Luke iv.17 and Acts xiii.15.
hapless: Without hap or luck; luckless; unfortunate; unlucky; unhappy;as, hapless youth; hapless maid. Dryden.
haply: By hap, chance, luck, or accident; perhaps; it may be.Lest haply ye be found even to fight against God. Acts v. 39.
harangueful: Full of harangue.
harbinger: To usher in; to be a harbinger of. "Thus did the star ofreligious freedom harbinger the day." Bancroft.
hardener: One who, or that which, hardens; specif., one who temperstools.
hardfern: A species of fern (Lomaria borealis), growing in Europe andNorthwestern America.
harelip: A lip, commonly the upper one, having a fissure ofperpendicular division like that of a hare.-- Hare"lipped`, a.
harken: To hearken. Tennyson.
harmine: An alkaloid accompanying harmaline (in the Peganum harmala),and obtained from it by oxidation. It is a white crystallinesubstance.
harmless: Relating to harmony, -- as melodic relates to melody;harmonious; esp., relating to the accessory sounds or overtones whichaccompany the predominant and apparent single tone of any string orsonorous body.
harmonometer: An instrument for measuring the harmonic relations of sounds.It is often a monochord furnished with movable bridges.
harmost: A governor or prefect appointed by the Spartans in the citiessubjugated by them.
harp: A constellation; Lyra, or the Lyre.
harping: Pertaining to the harp; as, harping symphonies. Milton.
harpings: The fore parts of the wales, which encompass the bow of avessel, and are fastened to the stem. [Written also harpins.] Totten.
harpooneer: An harpooner. Grabb.
harshly: In a harsh manner; gratingly; roughly; rudely.'T will sound harshly in her ears. Shak.
hasten: To press; to drive or urge forward; to push on; to precipitate;to accelerate the movement of; to expedite; to hurry.I would hasten my escape from the windy storm. Ps. lv. 8.
hastif: Hasty. [Obs.] Chaucer.-- Has"tif*ly, adv. [Obs.]
hatcheler: One who uses a hatchel.
hatchery: A house for hatching fish, etc.
hatching: A mode of execution in engraving, drawing, and miniaturepainting, in which shading is produced by lines crossing each otherat angles more or less acute; -- called also crosshatching.
hatchure: Same as Hachure.
hatchway: A square or oblong opening in a deck or floor, affordingpassage from one deck or story to another; the entrance to a cellar.
hatred: Strong aversion; intense dislike; hate; an affection of themind awakened by something regarded as evil.
hatter: To tire or worry; -- out. [Obs.] Dryden.
haulabout: A bargelike vessel with steel hull, large hatchways, and coaltransporters, for coaling war vessels from its own hold or from othercolliers.
haulse: See Halse.
haunt: To persist in staying or visiting.I've charged thee not to haunt about my doors. Shak.
hautgout: High relish or flavor; high seasoning.
havenage: Harbor dues; port dues.
haymaking: The operation or work of cutting grass and curing it for hay.
hayrake: A rake for collecting hay; especially, a large rake drawn by ahorse or horses.
hayward: An officer who is appointed to guard hedges, and to keep cattlefrom breaking or cropping them, and whose further duty it is toimpound animals found running at large.
headboard: A board or boarding which marks or forms the head of anything;as, the headboard of a bed; the headboard of a grave.
headway: Clear space under an arch, girder, and the like, sufficient toallow of easy passing underneath.
heald: A heddle. Ure.
healthfulness: The state of being healthful.
heat: Heated; as, the iron though heat red-hot. [Obs. or Archaic.]Shak.
heathery: Heathy; abounding in heather; of the nature of heath.
heaven: To place in happiness or bliss, as if in heaven; to beatify.[R.]We are happy as the bird whose nest Is heavened in the hush of purplehills. G. Massey.
hebetude: Dullness; stupidity. Harvey.
hebrician: A Hebraist. [R.]
heckle: Same as Hackle.
hectogram: A measure of weight, containing a hundred grams, or about 3.527ounces avoirdupois.
hedgebote: Same as Haybote.
heep: The hip of the dog-rose. [Obs.]
hegge: A hedge. [Obs.] Chaucer.
heliacally: In a heliacal manner. De Quincey.
helical: Of or pertaining to, or in the form of, a helix; spiral; as, ahelical staircase; a helical spring.-- Hel"i*cal*ly, adv.
heliconia: One of numerous species of Heliconius, a genus of tropicalAmerican butterflies. The wings are usually black, marked with green,crimson, and white.
helicotrema: The opening by which the two scalæ communicate at the top ofthe cochlea of the ear.
heliolatry: Sun worship. See Sabianism.
heliolite: A fossil coral of the genus Heliolites, having twelve-rayedcells. It is found in the Silurian rocks.
hellenotype: See Ivorytype.
hematinon: A red consisting of silica, borax, and soda, fused with oxideof copper and iron, and used in enamels, mosaics, etc.
hematite: An important ore of iron, the sesquioxide, so called because ofthe red color of the powder. It occurs in splendent rhombohedralcrystals, and in massive and earthy forms; -- the last called redocher. Called also specular iron, oligist iron, rhombohedral ironore, and bloodstone. See Brown hematite, under Brown.
hematoma: A circumscribed swelling produced by an effusion of bloodbeneath the skin.
hematotherma: The warm-blooded vertebrates, comprising the mammals and birds;-- the antithesis to hematocrya.
hemerobian: A neuropterous insect of the genus Hemerobius, and alliedgenera.
hemicarp: One portion of a fruit that spontaneously divides into halves.
hemicerebrum: A lateral half of the cerebrum. Wilder.
hemimellitic: Having half as many (three) carboxyl radicals as mellitic acid;-- said of an organic acid.
hemimorphic: Having the two ends modified with unlike planes; -- said of acrystal.
hemiptera: An order of hexapod insects having a jointed proboscis,including four sharp stylets (mandibles and maxillæ), for piercing.In many of the species (Heteroptera) the front wings are partiallycoriaceous, and different from the others.
hemisphere: Containing, or pertaining to, a hemisphere; as, a hemisphericfigure or form; a hemispherical body.
hemispheroid: A half of a spheroid.
hemmel: A shed or hovel for cattle. [Prov. Eng.] Wright.
hemoglobinometer: Same as Hæmochromometer.
henbane: A plant of the genus Hyoscyamus (H. niger). All parts of theplant are poisonous, and the leaves are used for the same purposes asbelladonna. It is poisonous to domestic fowls; whence the name.Called also, stinking nightshade, from the fetid odor of the plant.See Hyoscyamus.
henry: The unit of electric induction; the induction in a circuit whenthe electro-motive force induced in this circuit is one volt, whilethe inducing current varies at the rate of one ampère a second.
hepatocele: Hernia of the liver.
heptahedron: A solid figure with seven sides.
heptavalent: Having seven units of attractive force or affinity; -- said ofheptad elements or radicals.
her: The form of the objective and the possessive case of thepersonal pronoun she; as, I saw her with her purse out.
herbal: Of or pertaining to herbs. Quarles.
herblet: A small herb. Shak.
herborist: A herbalist. Ray.
herby: Having the nature of, pertaining to, or covered with, herbs orherbage. "Herby valleys." Chapman.
hercynian: Of or pertaining to an extensive forest in Germany, of whichthere are still portions in Swabia and the Hartz mountains.
herewith: With this.
heritor: A proprietor or landholder in a parish. [Scot.]
hermaphrodeity: Hermaphrodism. B. Jonson.
hermaphrodism: See Hermaphroditism.
hermitess: A female hermit. Coleridge.
hermitical: Pertaining to, or suited for, a hermit. Coventry.
hern: A heron; esp., the common European heron. "A stately hern."Trench.
herr: A title of respect given to gentlemen in Germany, equivalent tothe English Mister.
herring: One of various species of fishes of the genus Clupea, andallied genera, esp. the common round or English herring (C. harengus)of the North Atlantic. Herrings move in vast schools, coming inspring to the shores of Europe and America, where they are salted andsmoked in great quantities. Herring gull (Zoöl.), a large gull whichfeeds in part upon herrings; esp., Larus argentatus in America, andL. cachinnans in England. See Gull.-- Herring hog (Zoöl.), the common porpoise.-- King of the herrings. (Zoöl.) (a) The chimæra (C. monstrosa)which follows the schools of herring. See Chimæra. (b) The opah.
hersillon: A beam with projecting spikes, used to make a breachimpassable.
hery: To worship; to glorify; to praise. [Obs.] Chaucer. Spenser.
hesp: A measure of two hanks of linen thread. [Scot.] [Written alsohasp.] Knight.
hesperian: Western; being in the west; occidental. [Poetic] Milton.
heterodoxal: Not orthodox. Howell.
heterodromous: Having spirals of changing direction. Gray.
heterogony: The condition of having two or more kinds of flowers, differentas to the length of their stamens and pistils.
heteronereis: A free-swimming, dimorphic, sexual form of certain species ofNereis.
heteropathy: That mode of treating diseases, by which a morbid condition isremoved by inducing an opposite morbid condition to supplant it;allopathy.
heterophagi: Altrices.
heterostylism: The condition of being heterostyled.
heterotricha: A division of ciliated Infusoria, having fine cilia all overthe body, and a circle of larger ones around the anterior end.
hexactinellid: Having six-rayed spicules; belonging to the Hexactinellinæ.
hexactinia: The Anthozoa.
hexagynia: A Linnæan order of plants having six pistils.
hexahedral: In the form of a hexahedron; having six sides or faces.
hexdecylic: Pertaining to, or derived from, hexdecyl or hecdecane; as,hexdecylic alcohol.
heyday: An expression of frolic and exultation, and sometimes ofwonder. B. Jonson.
hickory: An American tree of the genus Carya, of which there are severalspecies. The shagbark is the C. alba, and has a very rough bark; itaffords the hickory nut of the markets. The pignut, or brown hickory,is the C. glabra. The swamp hickory is C. amara, having a nut whoseshell is very thin and the kernel bitter. Hickory shad. (Zoöl.) (a)The mattowacca, or fall herring. (b) The gizzard shad.
hid: imp. & p. p. of Hide. See Hidden.
hie: To hasten; to go in haste; -- also often with the reciprocalpronoun. [Rare, except in poetry] "My husband hies him home." Shak.The youth, returning to his mistress, hies. Dryden.
hierarch: One who has high and controlling authority in sacred things;the chief of a sacred order; as, princely hierarchs. Milton.
hieromancy: Divination by observing the objects offered in sacrifice.
hieronymite: See Jeronymite.
high: To hie. [Obs.]Men must high them apace, and make haste. Holland.
highflying: Extravagant in opinions or ambition. "Highflying, arbitrarykings." Dryden.
highland: Elevated or mountainous land; (often in the pl.) an elevatedregion or country; as, the Highlands of Scotland. Highland fling, adance peculiar to the Scottish Highlanders; a sort of hornpipe.
hightener: That which heightens.
highth: Variant of Height. [Obs.]
hilum: The eye of a bean or other seed; the mark or scar at the pointof attachment of an ovule or seed to its base or support; -- calledalso hile.
hin: A Hebrew measure of liquids, containing three quarts, one pint,one gill, English measure. W. H. Ward.
hindberry: The raspberry. [Prov. Eng.]
hindi: The name given by Europeans to that form of the Hindustanilanguage which is chiefly spoken by native Hindoos. In employs theDevanagari character, in which Sanskrit is written. Whitworth.
hinged: Furnished with hinges.
hink: A reaping hook. Knight.
hinterland: The land or region lying behind the coast district. The term isused esp. with reference to the so-called doctrine of the hinterland,sometimes advanced, that occupation of the coast supports a claim toan exclusive right to occupy, from time to time, the territory lyinginland of the coast.
hippogriff: A fabulous winged animal, half horse and half griffin. Milton.
hippophagous: Feeding on horseflesh; -- said of certain nomadic tribes, asthe Tartars.
hippophagy: The act or practice of feeding on horseflesh.
hirer: One who hires.
hirtellous: Pubescent with minute and somewhat rigid hairs.
hisingerite: A soft black, iron ore, nearly earthy, a hydrous silicate ofiron.
hispanic: Of or pertaining to Spain or its language; as, Hispanic words.
histogenetic: Tissue-producing; connected with the formation and developmentof the organic tissues.
histographical: Of or pertaining to histography.
hoazin: A remarkable South American bird (Opisthocomus cristatus); thecrested touraco. By some zoölogists it is made the type of a distinctorder (Opisthocomi).
hobbyhorsical: Pertaining to, or having, a hobby or whim; eccentric;whimsical.[Colloq.] Sterne.
hobit: A small mortar on a gun carriage, in use before the howitzer.
hodman: A man who carries a hod; a mason's tender.
hoidenhood: State of being a hoiden.
holcad: A large ship of burden, in ancient Greece. Mitford.
hold: The whole interior portion of a vessel below the lower deck, inwhich the cargo is stowed.
holluschickie: A young male fur seal, esp. one from three to six years old; --called also bachelor, because prevented from breeding by the olderfull-grown males.
holoblast: an ovum composed entirely of germinal matter. See Meroblast.
holothure: A holothurian.
holstered: Bearing holsters. Byron.
holystone: A stone used by seamen for scrubbing the decks of ships.Totten.
homaxonial: Relating to that kind of homology or symmetry, the mathematicalconception of organic form, in which all axes are equal. See underPromorphology.
homeopath: A practitioner of homeopathy. [Written also homoeopath.]
homestead: The home and appurtenant land and buildings owned by the headof a family, and occupied by him and his family. Homestead law. (a) Alaw conferring special privileges or exemptions upon owners ofhomesteads; esp., a law exempting a homestead from attachment or saleunder execution for general debts. Such laws, with limitations as tothe extent or value of the property, exist in most of the States.Called also homestead exemption law. (b) Also, a designation of anAct of Congress authorizing and regulating the sale of public lands,in parcels of 160 acres each, to actual settlers. [U.S.]
homiletics: The art of preaching; that branch of theology which treats ofhomilies or sermons, and the best method of preparing and deliveringthem.
homing: Home-returning; -- used specifically of carrier pigeons.
homodemic: A morphological term signifying development, in the case ofmulticellular organisms, from the same unit deme or unit of theinferior orders of individuality.
homodynamous: Pertaining to, or involving, homodynamy; as, successive orhomodynamous parts in plants and animals.
homoeomerous: Having the main artery of the leg parallel with the sciaticnerve; -- said of certain birds.
homogene: Homogeneous. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
homoiousian: One of the semi-Arians of the 4th century, who held that theSon was of like, but not the same, essence or substance with theFather; -- opposed to homoousian.
homologon: See Homologue.
homology: Correspondence or relation in type of structure incontradistinction to similarity of function; as, the relation instructure between the leg and arm of a man; or that between the armof a man, the fore leg of a horse, the wing of a bird, and the fin ofa fish, all these organs being modifications of one type ofstructure.
homonomy: The homology of parts arranged on transverse axes. Haeckel.
homoptera: A suborder of Hemiptera, in which both pairs of wings aresimilar in texture, and do not overlap when folded, as in the cicada.See Hemiptera.
honeybee: Any bee of the genus Apis, which lives in communities andcollects honey, esp. the common domesticated hive bee (Apismellifica), the Italian bee (A. ligustica), and the Arabiab bee (A.fasciata). The two latter are by many entomologists considered onlyvarieties of the common hive bee. Each swarm of bees consists of alarge number of workers (barren females), with, ordinarily, one queenor fertile female, but in the swarming season several young queens,and a number of males or drones, are produced.
hong: A mercantile establishment or factory for foreign trade inChina, as formerly at Canton; a succession of offices connected by acommon passage and used for business or storage. Hong merchant, oneof the few Chinese merchants who, previous to the treaty of 1842,formed a guild which had the exclusive privilege of trading withforeigners.
hooker: Spur gearing having teeth slanting across the face of thewheel, sometimes slanting in opposite directions from the middle.
hoove: A disease in cattle consisting in inflammation of the stomachby gas, ordinarily caused by eating too much green food; tympany;bloating.
hoplite: A heavy-armed infantry soldier. Milford.
hornwrack: A bryozoan of the genus Flustra.
horoscope: One versed in horoscopy; an astrologer.
horrify: To cause to feel horror; to strike or impress with horror; as,the sight horrified the beholders. E. Irving.
horseshoe: The Limulus of horsehoe crab. Horsehoe head (Med.), an old namefor the condition of the skull in children, in which the sutures aretoo open, the coronal suture presenting the form of a horsehoe.Dunglison.-- Horsehoe magnet, an artificial magnet in the form of a horsehoe.-- Horsehoe nail. See Horsenail.-- Horsehoe nose (Zoöl.), a bat of the genus Rhinolophus, having anasal fold of skin shaped like a horsehoe.
horsewhip: A whip for horses.
hortatory: Giving exhortation or advise; encouraging; exhortatory;inciting; as, a hortatory speech. Holland.
hospital: Hospitable. [Obs.] Howell.
hospitalism: A vitiated condition of the body, due to long confinement in ahospital, or the morbid condition of the atmosphere of a hospital.
hospitium: An inn of court.
hotbed: A bed of earth heated by fermenting manure or other substances,and covered with glass, intended for raising early plants, or fornourishing exotics.
hotcockles: A childish play, in which one covers his eyes, and guesses whostrikes him or his hand placed behind him.
hotpressed: Pressed while heat is applied. See Hotpress, v. t.
hottentotism: A term employed to describe one of the varieties of stammering.Tylor.
hound: A variety of the domestic dog, usually having large, droopingears, esp. one which hunts game by scent, as the foxhound,bloodhound, deerhound, but also used for various breeds of fleethunting dogs, as the greyhound, boarhound, etc.Hounds and greyhounds, mongrels, spaniels, curs. Shak.
houndfish: Any small shark of the genus Galeus or Mustelus, of which thereare several species, as the smooth houndfish (G. canis), of Europeand America; -- called also houndshark, and dogfish.
hounding: The part of a mast below the hounds and above the deck.
houri: A nymph of paradise; -- so called by the Mohammedans.
hours: Goddess of the seasons, or of the hours of the day.Lo! where the rosy-blosomed Hours, Fair Venus' train, appear. Gray.
housing: A frame or support for holding something in place, as journalboxes, etc.
houstonia: A genus of small rubiaceous herbs, having tetramerous salveformblue or white flower. There are about twenty species, natives ofNorth America. Also, a plant of this genus.
hoveler: One who assists in saving life and property from a wreck; acoast boatman. [Written also hoveller.] [Prov. Eng.] G. P. R. James.
howitz: A howitzer. [Obs.]
huddler: One who huddles things together.
hudibrastic: Similar to, or in the style of, the poem "Hudibras," by SamuelButler; in the style of doggerel verse. Macaulay.
hue: A predominant shade in a composition of primary colors; aprimary color modified by combination with others.
huffer: A bully; a blusterer. Hudibras.
huffish: Disposed to be blustering or arrogant; petulant.-- Huff"ish*ly, adv.-- Huff"ish*ness, n.
huke: An outer garment worn in Europe in the Middle Ages. [Writtenalso heuk and hyke.] [Obs.] Bacon.
hullabaloo: A confused noise; uproar; tumult. [Colloq.] Thackeray.
huloist: See Hyloist.
humblehead: Humble condition or estate; humility. [Obs.] Chaucer.
humic: Pertaining to, or derived from, vegetable mold; as, humic acid.See Humin.
humid: Containing sensible moisture; damp; moist; as, a humidair oratmosphere; somewhat wet or watery; as, humid earth; consisting ofwater or vapor.Evening cloud, or humid bow. Milton.
humidity: Moisture; dampness; a moderate degree of wetness, which isperceptible to the eye or touch; -- used especially of theatmosphere, or of anything which has absorbed moisture from theatmosphere, as clothing.
humiri: A fragrant balsam obtained from Brazilian trees of the genusHumirium.
humorsomely: Pleasantly; humorously.
humpy: Full of humps or bunches; covered with protuberances; humped.
hungary: A country in Central Europe, now a part of the Austro-HungarianEmpire. Hungary water, a distilled "water," made from dilute alcoholaromatized with rosemary flowers, etc.
hurlbat: See Whirlbat. [Obs.] Holland.
hurons: ; sing. Huron. (Ethnol.) A powerful and warlike tribe of NorthAmerican Indians of the Algonquin stock. They formerly occupied thecountry between Lakes Huron, Erie, and Ontario, but were nearlyexterminated by the Five Nations about 1650.
hurrier: One who hurries or urges.
husbandless: Destitute of a husband. Shak.
husk: To strip off the external covering or envelope of; as, to huskIndian corn.
hut: A small house, hivel, or cabin; a mean lodge or dwelling; aslightly built or temporary structure.Death comes on with equal footsteps To the hall and hut. Bp. Coxe.
huzz: To buzz; to murmur. [Obs.]Huzzing and burring in the preacher's ear. Latimer.
hyalite: A pellucid variety of opal in globules looking like colorlessgum or resin; -- called also Müller's glass.
hyalography: Art of writing or engraving on glass.
hydractinian: Any species or marine hydroids, of the genus Hydractinia andallied genera. These hydroids form, by their rootstalks, a firm,chitinous coating on shells and stones, and esp. on spiral shellsoccupied by hermit crabs. See Illust. of Athecata.
hydrarthrosis: An effusion of watery liquid into the cavity of a joint.
hydrocarbon: A compound containing only hydrogen and carbon, as methane,benzene, etc.; also, by extension, any of their derivatives.Hydrocarbon burner, furnace, stove, a burner, furnace, or stove withwhich liquid fuel, as petroleum, is used.
hydrochloric: Pertaining to, or compounded of, chlorine and hydrogen gas; as,hydrochloric acid; chlorhydric. Hydrochloric acid (Chem.), hydrogenchloride; a colorless, corrosive gas, HCl, of pungent, suffocatingodor. It is made in great quantities in the soda process, by theaction of sulphuric acid on common salt. It has a great affinity forwater, and the commercial article is a strong solution of the gas inwater. It is a typical acid, and is an indispensable agent incommercial and general chemical work. Called also muriatic, andchlorhydric, acid.
hydrocyanide: A compound of hydrocyanic acid with a base; -- distinguishedfrom a cyanide, in which only the cyanogen so combines.
hydroid: Related to, or resembling, the hydra; of or pertaining to theHydroidea.-- n.
hydrolytic: Tending to remove or separate water; eliminating water.Hydrolytic agents, such as sulphuric acid or caustic alkali. Encyc.Brit.Hydrolitic ferment (Physiol. Chem.), a ferment, enzyme, or chemicalferment, which acts only in the presence of water, and which causesthe substance acted upon to take up a molecule of water. Thus,diastase of malt, ptyalin of saliva, and boiling dilute sulphuricacid all convert starch by hydration into dextrin and sugar. Nearlyall of the digestive ferments are hydrolytic in their action.
hydrometeor: A meteor or atmospheric phenomenon dependent upon the vapor ofwater; -- in the pl., a general term for the whole aqueous phenomenaof the atmosphere, as rain, snow, hail, etc. Nichol.
hydropathist: One who practices hydropathy; a water-cure doctor.
hydrophobic: Of or pertaining to hydrophobia; producing or caused by rabies;as, hydrophobic symptoms; the hydrophobic poison.
hydroplane: Of a boat, to plane (see Plane, below).
hydrosphere: The aqueous vapor of the entire atmosphere.
hydrosulphuret: A hydrosulphide. [Archaic]
hydrosulphuric: Pertaining to, or derived from, hydrogen and sulphur; as,hydrosulphuricacid, a designation applied to the solution of hydrogensulphide in water.
hydrotherapeutics: A system of treating disease by baths and mineral waters.
hydroxanthic: Persulphocyanic.
hydroxide: A hydrate; a substance containing hydrogen and oxygen, made bycombining water with an oxide, and yielding water by elimination. Thehydroxides are regarded as compounds of hydroxyl, united usually withbasic element or radical; as, calcium hydroxide ethyl hydroxide.
hydruret: A binary compound of hydrogen; a hydride. [Obs.]
hyen: A hyena. [Obs.] Shak.
hygeist: One skilled in hygiena; a hygienist.
hygienic: Of or pertaining to health or hygiene; sanitary.
hygrograph: An instrument for recording automatically the variations of thehumidity of the atmosphere.
hygrology: The science which treats of the fluids of the body.
hymnist: A writer of hymns.
hymnography: The art or act of composing hymns.
hypaspist: A shield-bearer or armor-bearer. Mitford.
hyperborean: Of or pertaining to the region beyond the North wind, or to itsinhabitants.
hypercritic: One who is critical beyond measure or reason; a carping critic;a captious censor. "Hypercritics in English poetry." Dryden.
hyperesthesia: Same as Hyperæsthesia.
hyperkinetic: Of or pertaining to hyperkinesis.
hypermeter: A verse which has a redundant syllable or foot; ahypercatalectic verse.
hypermetrical: Having a redundant syllable; exceeding the common measure.Hypermetrical verse (Gr. & Lat. Pros.), a verse which contains asyllable more than the ordinary measure.
hyperorganic: Higher than, or beyond the sphere of, the organic. Sir W.Hamilton.
hyperphysical: Above or transcending physical laws; supernatural.Those who do not fly to some hyperphysical hypothesis. Sir W.Hamilton.
hypnobate: A somnambulist. [R.]
hypocarpogean: Producing fruit below the ground.
hypochondriac: A person affected with hypochondriasis.He had become an incurable hypochondriac. Macaulay.
hypocritical: Of or pertaining to a hypocrite, or to hypocrisy; as, ahypocriticalperson; a hypocritical look; a hypocritical action.Hypocritical professions of friendship and of pacific intentions werenot spared. Macaulay.-- Hyp`o*crit"ic*al*ly, adv.
hypoglossal: Under the tongue; -- applied esp., in the higher vertebrates,to the twelfth or last pair of cranial nerves, which are distributedto the base of the tongue.-- n.
hyponasty: Downward convexity, or convexity of the inferior surface.
hyponitrite: A salt of hyponitrous acid.
hyposulphate: A salt of hyposulphuric acid.
hyposulphurous: Pertaining to, or containing, sulphur, all, or a part, in a lowstate of oxidation. Hyposulphurous acid. (a) Thiosulphuric acid.[Obs.] (b) An acid, H2SO2, obtained by the reduction of sulphurousacid. It is not obtained in the free state, but in an orange-yellowwater solution, which is a strong reducing and bleaching agent.Called also hydrosulphurous acid.
hypotheca: An obligation by which property of a debtor was made over tohis creditor in security of his debt.
hyrax: Any animal of the genus Hyrax, of which about four species areknown. They constitute the order Hyracoidea. The best known speciesare the daman (H. Syriacus) of Palestine, and the klipdas (H.capensis) of South Africa. Other species are H. arboreus and H.Sylvestris, the former from Southern, and the latter from Western,Africa. See Daman.
ich: I. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ichnite: A fossil footprint; as, the ichnites in the Triassic sandstone.Page.
ichnolite: A fossil footprint; an ichnite.
ichthyography: A treatise on fishes.
ichthyol: An oily substance prepared by the dry distillation of abituminous mineral containing fossil fishes. It is used in medicineas a remedy in some forms of skin diseases.
ichthyophagy: The practice of eating, or living upon, fish.
ichthyophthira: A division of copepod crustaceans, including numerous speciesparasitic on fishes.
iciness: The state or quality of being icy or very cold; frigidity.
ickle: An icicle. [Prov. Eng.]
iconical: Pertaining to, or consisting of, images, pictures, orrepresentations of any kind.
iconolater: One who worships images.
iconology: The discussion or description of portraiture or ofrepresentative images. Cf. Iconography.
idalian: Of or pertaining to Idalium, a mountain city in Cyprus, or toVenus, to whom it was sacred. "Idalian Aphrodité." Tennyson.
idealization: The representation of natural objects, scenes, etc., in such away as to show their most important characteristics; the study of theideal.
idealize: To treat in an ideal manner. See Idealization, 2.
identically: In an identical manner; with respect to identity. "Identicallythe same." Bp. Warburton. "Identically different." Ross.
ides: The fifteenth day of March, May, July, and October, and thethirteenth day of the other months.The ides of March remember. Shak.
idiocyclophanous: Same as Idiophanous.
idiograph: A mark or signature peculiar to an individual; a trade-mark.
idiomorphic: Idiomorphous.
idolatrical: Idolatrous. [Obs.]
idolous: Idolatrous. [Obs.] Bale.
idyllic: Of or belonging to idyls.
igasuric: Pertaining to, or obtained from, nux vomica or St. Ignatius'sbean; as, igasuric acid.
igasurine: An alkaloid found in nux vomica, and extracted as a whitecrystalline substance.
ignicolist: A worshiper of fire. [R.]
ignoscible: Pardonable. [Obs.] Bailey.
iliac: Pertaining to ancient Ilium, or Troy. Gladstone.
iliad: A celebrated Greek epic poem, in twenty-four books, on thedestruction of Ilium, the ancient Troy. The Iliad is ascribed toHomer.
ilicic: Pertaining to, or derived from, the holly (Ilex), and alliedplants; as, ilicic acid.
illecebrous: Alluring; attractive; enticing. [Obs.] Sir T. Elyot.
illegibility: The state or quality of being illegible.
illeviable: Not leviable; incapable of being imposed, or collected. [R.]Sir M. Hale.
illiteral: Not literal. [R.] B. Dawson.
illiterature: Want of learning; illiteracy. [R.] Ayliffe. Southey.
illusively: In a illusive manner; falsely.
illustrable: Capable of illustration. Sir T. Browne.
illustrate: Illustrated; distinguished; illustrious. [Obs.]This most gallant, illustrate, and learned gentleman. Shak.
illuxurious: Not luxurious. [R.] Orrery.
ilvaite: A silicate of iron and lime occurring in black prismaticcrystals and columnar masses.
imbarn: To store in a barn. [Obs.]
imbonity: Want of goodness. [Obs.] Burton.
imitatrix: An imitatress.
immanacle: To manacle; to fetter; hence; to confine; to restrain from freeaction.Although this corporal rind Thou hast immanacled. Milton.
immensity: The state or quality of being immense; inlimited orimmeasurable extension; infinity; vastness in extent or bulk;greatness.Lost in the wilds of vast immensity. Blackmore.The immensity of the material system. I. Taylor.
immersion: The dissapearance of a celestail body, by passing either behindanother, as in the occultation of a star, or into its shadow, as inthe eclipse of a satellite; -- opposed to emersion. Immersion lens, amicroscopic objective of short focal distance designed to work with adrop of liquid, as oil, between the front lens and the slide, so thatthis lens is practically immersed.
immovably: In an immovable manner.
immutable: Not mutable; not capable or susceptible of change;unchangeable; unalterable.That by two immutable things, in which it was impossible for God tolie, we might have a strong consolation. Heb. vi. 18.Immutable, immortal, infinite, Eternal King. Milton.-- Im*mu"ta*ble*ness, n.-- Im*mu"ta*bly, adv.
impalla: The pallah deer of South Africa.
imparter: One who imparts.
impartialist: One who is impartial. [R.] Boyle.
impassibility: The quality or condition of being impassible; insusceptibilityof injury from external things.
impassionable: Excitable; susceptible of strong emotion.
impatient: One who is impatient. [R.]
impeachable: That may be impeached; liable to impeachment; chargeable with acrime.Owners of lands in fee simple are not impeachable for waste. Z.Swift.
impeccable: Not liable to sin; exempt from the possibility of doing wrong.-- n.
impedimenta: Things which impede or hinder progress; incumbrances; baggage;specif. (Mil.),
impeller: One who, or that which, impels.
impeople: To people; to give a population to. [Obs.]Thou hast helped to impeople hell. Beaumont.
imperatival: Of or pertaining to the imperative mood.
imperatorian: Imperial. [R.] Gauden.
imperceptible: Not perceptible; not to be apprehended or cognized by thesouses; not discernible by the mind; not easily apprehended.Almost imperceptible to the touch. Dryden.Its operation is slow, and in some cases almost imperceptible. Burke.-- Im`per*cep"ti*ble*ness, n.-- Im`per*cep"ti*bly, adv.Their . . . subility and imperceptibleness. Sir M. Hale.
imperialism: The power or character of an emperor; imperial authority; thespirit of empire.Roman imperialism had divided the world. C. H. Pearson.
imperiously: In an imperious manner.
impermeability: The quality of being impermeable.
imperspicuous: Not perspicuous; not clear; obscure; vague; ambeguous.
impertransible: Incapable of being passed through. [R.]
impery: Empery. [Archaic] Joye.
impictured: Pictured; impressed. [Obs.] Spenser.
impinge: To fall or dash against; to touch upon; to strike; to hit; tociash with; -- with on or upon.The cause of reflection is not the impinging of light on the solid orimpervious parts of bodies. Sir I. Newton.But, in the present order of things, not to be employed withoutimpinging on God's justice. Bp. Warburton.
impingent: Striking against or upon.
implacability: The quality or state of being implacable.
impleasing: Unpleasing; displeasing. [Obs.] Overbury.
imploration: The act of imploring; earnest supplication. Bp. Hall.
impoisoner: A poisoner. [Obs.] Beau. & Fi.
impoliticly: In an impolitic manner.
imporous: Destitute of pores; very close or compact in texture; solid.Sir T. Browne.
importancy: Importance; significance; consequence; that which is important.[Obs.] Shak. "Careful to conceal importancies." Fuller.
importantly: In an important manner.
importunity: The quality of being importunate; pressing or pertinacioussolicitation; urgent request; incessant or frequent application;troublesome pertinacity.O'ercome with importunity and tears. Milton.
imposing: The act of imposing the columns of a page, or the pages of asheet. See Impose, v. t., 4. Imposing stone (Print.), the stone onwhich the pages or columns of types are imposed or made into forms; -- called also imposing table.
impossible: Not possible; incapable of being done, of existing, etc.;unattainable in the nature of things, or by means at command;insuperably difficult under the circumstances; absurd orimpracticable; not feasible.With men this is impossible; but with God all things are possible.Matt. xix. 26.Without faith it is impossible to please him. Heb. xi. 6.Impossible quantity (Math.), an imagnary quantity. See Imaginary.
impostorship: The condition, character, or practice of an impostor. Milton.
impreventable: Not preventable; invitable.
improvability: The state or quality of being improvable; improvableness.
impudency: Impudence. [Obs.] Burton.Audacious without impudency. Shak.
impudicity: Immodesty. Sheldon.
imputability: The quality of being imputable; imputableness.
inactively: In an inactive manner. Locke.
inadequation: Want of exact correspondence. [Obs.] Puller.
inadmissible: Not admissible; not proper to be admitted, allowed, orreceived; as, inadmissible testimony; an inadmissible proposition, orexplanation.-- In`ad*mis"si*bly, adv.
inalienably: In a manner that forbids alienation; as, rights inalienablyvested.
inanitiate: To produce inanition in; to exhaust for want of nourishment.[R.]
inanitiation: Inanition. [R.]
inanition: The condition of being inane; emptiness; want of fullness, asin the vessels of the body; hence, specifically, exhaustion from wantof food, either from partial or complete starvation, or from adisorder of the digestive apparatus, producing the same result.Feeble from inanition, inert from weariness. Landor.Repletion and inanition may both do harm in two contrary extremes.Burton.
inaquate: Embodied in, or changed into, water. [Obs.] Cranmer.
inarch: To graft by uniting, as a scion, to a stock, without separatingeither from its root before the union is complete; -- also called tograft by approach. P. Miler.
inaugurator: One who inaugurates.
inaurate: Covered with gold; gilded.
inborn: Born in or with; implanted by nature; innate; as, inbornpassions. Cowper.
inbreathe: To infuse by breathing; to inspire. Coleridge.
incalculability: The quality or state of being incalculable.
incanescent: Becoming hoary or gray; canescent.
incapacitation: The act of incapacitating or state of being incapacitated;incapacity; disqualification. Burke.
incapacity: Want of legal ability or competency to do, give, transmit, orreceive something; inability; disqualification; as, the inacapacityof minors to make binding contracts, etc.
incarnadine: Flesh-colored; of a carnation or pale red color. [Obs.]Lovelace.
incaution: Want of caution. Pope.
inchamber: To lodge in a chamber. [R.] Sherwood.
inchant: See Enchant.
incinerate: Reduced to ashes by burning; thoroughly consumed. [Obs.] Bacon.
incircumscription: Condition or quality of being incircumscriptible or limitless.Jer. Taylor.
incite: To move to action; to stir up; to rouse; to spur or urge on.Anthiochus, when he incited Prusias to join in war, set before himthe greatness of the Romans. Bacon.No blown ambition doth our arms incite. Shak.
inclinatory: Having the quality of leaning or inclining; as, the inclinatoryneedle.-- In*clin"a*to*ri*ly, adv. Sir T. Browne.
inclusively: In an inclusive manner.
incoach: To put a coach.
incoagulable: Not coagulable.
incogitant: Toughtless; inconsiderate. [R.] Milton.Men are careless and incogitant. J. Goodman.
incommunicated: Not communicated or imparted. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.
incompared: Peerless; incomparable. [Obs.] Spenser.
incompatibility: The quality or state of being incompatible; inconsistency;irreconcilableness.
incompatible: Incapable of being together without mutual reaction ordecomposition, as certain medicines. Incompatible terms (Logic),terms which can not be combined in thought.
inconcocted: Imperfectly digested, matured, or ripened. [Obs.] Bacon.
inconform: Unconformable. [Obs.] Gauden.
inconnexedly: Not connectedly; without connection. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
inconsistently: In an inconsistent manner.
incontaminate: Not contaminated; pure. Moore.-- In`con*tam"i*nate*ness, n.
incontracted: Uncontracted. [Obs.] Blackwall.
incorporal: Immaterial; incorporeal; spiritual. [Obs.] Sir W. Raleigh.
incorrection: Want of correction, restraint, or discipline. [Obs.] Arnway.
incorruption: The condition or quality of being incorrupt or incorruptible;absence of, or exemption from, corruption.It is sown in corruption; it is raised in incorruption. 1 Cor. xv.42.The same preservation, or, rather, incorruption, we have observed inthe flesh of turkeys, capons, etc. Sir T. Browne.
increate: To create within. [R.]
incredulously: In an incredulous manner; with incredulity.
increpation: A chiding; rebuke; reproof. [Obs.] Hammond.
incriminate: To accuse; to charge with a crime or fault; to criminate.
incrust: To inlay into, as a piece of carving or other ornamentalobject.
incrystallizable: Not crystallizable; incapable of being formed into crystals.
inculp: To inculpate. [Obs.] Shelton.
incurability: The state of being uncurable; irremediableness. Harvey.
incurable: A person diseased beyond cure.
incus: One of the small bones in the tympanum of the ear; the anvilbone. See Ear.
indagate: To seek or search out. [Obs.]
indamaged: Not damaged. [Obs.] Milton.
indefatigability: The state of being indefatigable.
indefatigably: Without weariness; without yielding to fatigue; persistently.Dryden.
indefatigation: Indefatigableness; unweariedness. [Obs.] J. Gregory.
indefinably: In an indefinable manner.
independently: In an independent manner; without control.
indexer: One who makes an index.
indicatively: In an indicative manner; in a way to show or signify.
indigestion: Lack of proper digestive action; a failure of the normalchanges which food should undergo in the alimentary canal; dyspepsia;incomplete or difficult digestion.
indigofera: A genus of leguminous plants having many species, mostly intropical countries, several of them yielding indigo, esp. Indigoferatinctoria, and I. Anil.
indigogen: See Indigo white, under Indigo.
indigometry: The art or method of determining the coloring power of indigo.
indirect: Not reaching the end aimed at by the most plain and directmethod; as, an indirect proof, demonstration, etc. Indirect claims,claims for remote or consequential damage. Such claims were presentedto and thrown out by the commissioners who arbitrated the damageinflicted on the United States by the Confederate States cruisersbuilt and supplied by Great Britain.-- Indirect demonstration, a mode of demonstration in which proof isgiven by showing that any other supposition involves an absurdity(reductio ad absurdum), or an impossibility; thus, one quantity maybe proved equal to another by showing that it can be neither greaternor less.-- Indirect discourse. (Gram.) See Direct discourse, under Direct.-- Indirect evidence, evidence or testimony which is circumstantialor inferential, but without witness; -- opposed to direct evidence.-- Indirect tax, a tax, such as customs, excises, etc., exacteddirectly from the merchant, but paid indirectly by the consumer inthe higher price demanded for the articles of merchandise.
indirubin: A substance isomeric with, and resembling, indigo blue, andaccompanying it as a side product, in its artificial production.
indispensably: In an indispensable manner. "Indispensably necessary." Bp.Warburton.
indissolvable: Not dissolvable; incapable of being dissolved or separated;incapable oas, an indissolvable bond of union. Bp. Warburton.
indistinction: Want of distinction or distinguishableness; confusion;uncertainty; indiscrimination.The indistinction of many of the same name . . . hath made somedoubt. Sir T. Browne.An indistinction of all persons, or equality of all orders, is farfrom being agreeable to the will of God. Sprat.
indisturbance: Freedom from disturbance; calmness; repose; apathy;indifference.
indonesian: Of or pertaining to Indonesia or Indonesians.
indorsee: The person to whom a note or bill is indorsed, or assigned byindorsement.
indrench: To overwhelm with water; to drench; to drown. [Obs.] Shak.
induction: The act or process of reasoning from a part to a whole, fromparticulars to generals, or from the individual to the universal;also, the result or inference so reached.Induction is an inference drawn from all the particulars. Sir W.Hamilton.Induction is the process by which we conclude that what is true ofcertain individuals of a class, is true of the whole class, or thatwhat is true at certain times will be true in similar circumstancesat all times. J. S. Mill.
inductor: That portion of an electrical apparatus, in which is theinducing charge or current.
inenarrable: Incapable of being narrated; indescribable; ineffable. [Obs.]"Inenarrable goodness." Bp. Fisher.
ineptly: Unfitly; unsuitably; awkwardly.None of them are made foolishly or ineptly. Dr. H. More.
inequitable: Not equitable; not just. Burke.
inevident: Not evident; not clear or obvious; obscure.
inexcitability: The quality of being inexcitable; insusceptibility toexcitement.
inexhausted: Not exhausted; not emptied; not spent; not having lost allstrength or resources; unexhausted. Dryden.
inexplicableness: A state of being inexplicable; inexplicability.
inexplosive: Not explosive.
inexterminable: Incapable of extermination. Rush.
inextirpable: Not capable of being extirpated or rooted out; ineradicable.
infallibilist: One who accepts or maintains the dogma of papal infallibility.
infaust: Not favorable; unlucky; unpropitious; sinister. [R.] Ld.Lytton.
infeasible: Not capable of being done or accomplished; impracticable.Glanvill.
infectiousness: The quality of being infectious.
infecund: Unfruitful; not producing young; barren; infertile. [Obs.]Evelyn.
infernal: An inhabitant of the infernal regions; also, the place itself.[Obs.] Drayton.
infester: One who, or that which, infests.
infestive: Having no mirth; not festive or merry; dull; cheerless; gloomy;forlorn. [R.]
infile: To arrange in a file or rank; to place in order. [Obs.]Holland.
inflammative: Inflammatory.
inflesh: To incarnate.
informative: Having power to inform, animate, or vivify. Dr. H. More.
informidable: Not formidable; not to be feared or dreaded. [Obs.] "Foe notinformidable." Milton.
informous: Of irregular form; shapeless. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
infortuned: Unfortunate. [Obs.]I, woeful wretch and infortuned wight. Chaucer.
infraction: The act of infracting or breaking; breach; violation;nonobservance; infringement; as, an infraction of a treaty, compact,rule, or law. I. Watts.
infralabial: Below the lower lip; -- said of certain scales of reptiles andfishes.
inframundane: Lying or situated beneath the world.
infranchise: See Enfranchise.
infraocular: Situated below the eyes, as the antenna of certain insects.
infructuose: Not producing fruit; unfruitful; unprofitable. [R.] T. Adams.
infusive: Having the power of infusion; inspiring; influencing.The infusive force of Spirit on man. Thomson.
infusorian: One of the Infusoria.
ingannation: Cheat; deception. [Obs.] Sir T. Brown.
ingathering: The act or business of gathering or collecting anything;especially, the gathering of the fruits of the earth; harvest.Thou shalt keep . . . the feast of ingathering. Ex. xxii. 16.
ingelable: Not congealable.
ingreat: To make great; to enlarge; to magnify. [Obs.] Fotherby.
ingress: The entrance of the moon into the shadow of the earth ineclipses, the sun's entrance into a sign, etc.
ingrieve: To render more grievous; to aggravate. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney.
ingross: See Engross.
ingurgitation: The act of swallowing greedily or immoderately; that which isso swallowed. E. Darwin.He drowned his stomach and senses with a large draught andingurgitation of wine. Bacon.
inhabitativeness: A tendency or propensity to permanent residence in a place orabode; love of home and country.
inhabited: Uninhabited. [Obs.] Brathwait.
inhabitiveness: See Inhabitativeness.What the phrenologists call inhabitiveness. Lowell.
inhale: To breathe or draw into the lungs; to inspire; as, to inhaleair; -- opposed to exhale.Martin was walking forth to inhale the fresh breeze of the evening.Arbuthnot.
inhalent: Used for inhaling; as, the inhalent end of a duct. Dana.
inherse: See Inhearse.
inimicality: The state or quality of being inimical or hostile; hostility;unfriendliness. [R.]
injector: A contrivance for forcing feed water into a steam boiler by thedirect action of the steam upon the water. The water is driven intothe boiler by the impulse of a jet of the steam which becomescondensed as soon as it strikes the stream of cold water it impels; -- also called Giffard's injector, from the inventor.
injuriousness: The quality of being injurious or hurtful; harmfulness; injury.
inker: One who, or that which, inks; especially, in printing, the pador roller which inks the type.
inkfish: A cuttlefish. See Cuttlefish.
inking: Supplying or covering with ink. Inking roller, a somewhatelastic roller,used to spread ink over forms of type, copperplates,etc.-- Inking trough or table, a trough or table from which the inkingroller receives its ink.
inleaguer: To beleaguer. Holland.
inlive: To animate. [R.] B. Jonson.
inly: Internal; interior; secret.Didst thou but know the inly touch of love. Shak.
inmeats: The edible viscera of animals, as the heart, liver, etc.
innervation: Special activity excited in any part of the nervous system orin any organ of sense or motion; the nervous influence necessary forthe maintenance of life,and the functions of the various organs.
innodate: To bind up,as in a knot; to include. [Obs.] Fuller.
innutritious: Not nutritious; not furnishing nourishment.
inobservable: Not observable.
inofficious: Regardless of natural obligation; contrary to natural duty;unkind; -- commonly said of a testament made without regard tonatural obligation, or by which a child is unjustly deprived ofinheritance. "The inofficious testament." Blackstone. "An inofficiousdisposition of his fortune." Paley.
inopportunity: Want of opportunity; unseasonableness; inconvenience. [R.]
inoxidize: To prevent or hinder oxidation, rust, or decay; as, inoxidizingoils or varnishes.
inquiring: Given to inquiry; disposed to investigate causes; curious; as,an inquiring mind.
inquisitiveness: The quality or state of being inquisitive; the disposition toseek explanation and information; curiosity to learn what is unknown;esp., uncontrolled and impertinent curiosity.Mr. Boswell, whose inquisitiveness is seconded by great activity,scrambled in at a high window. Johnson.Curiosity in children nature has provided, to remove that ignorancethey were born with; which, without this busy inquisitiveness, willmake them dull. Locke.
inracinate: To enroot or implant.
inrail: To rail in; to inclose or surround, as with rails. Hooker.
insanitation: Lack of sanitation; careless or dangerous hygienic conditions.
insatiableness: Greediness of appetite that can not be satisfied or appeased;insatiability.The eye of the covetous hath a more particular insatiableness. Bp.Hall.
insconce: See Ensconce.
inscriber: One who inscribes. Pownall.
insect: One of the Insecta; esp., one of the Hexapoda. See Insecta.
insectivore: One of the Insectivora.
insensibleness: Insensibility. Bp. Hall.
insensitive: Not sensitive; wanting sensation, or wanting acute sensibility.Tillotson. Ruskin.
insensuous: Not sensuous; not pertaining to, affecting, or addressing, thesenses.That intermediate door Betwixt the different planes of sensuous formAnd form insensuous. Mrs. Browning.
insertion: The point or part by which a muscle or tendon is attached tothe part to be moved; -- in contradistinction to its origin.Epigynous insertion (Bot.), the insertion of stamens upon the ovary.-- Hypogynous insertion (Bot.), insertion beneath the ovary.
insinew: To strengthen, as with sinews; to invigorate. [Obs.]All members of our cause, . . . That are insinewed to this action.Shak.
insinuatingly: By insinuation.
insistent: See Incumbent.
insolate: To dry in, or to expose to, the sun's rays; to ripen or prepareby such exposure. Johnson.
insolency: Insolence. [R.] Evelyn.
inspiration: A supernatural divine influence on the prophets, apostles, orsacred writers, by which they were qualified to communicate moral orreligious truth with authority; a supernatural influence whichqualifies men to receive and communicate divine truth; also, thetruth communicated.All Scripture is given by inspiration of God. 2 Tim. iii. 16.The age which we now live in is not an age of inspiration andimpulses. Sharp.Plenary inspiration (Theol.), that kind of inspiration which excludesall defect in the utterance of the inspired message.-- Verbal inspiration (Theol.), that kind of inspiration whichextends to the very words and forms of expression of the divinemessage.
instigation: The act of instigating, or the state of being instigated;incitement; esp. to evil or wickedness.The baseness and villainy that . . . the instigation of the devilcould bring the sons of men to. South.
instituter: An institutor. [R.]
institutively: In conformity with an institution. Harrington.
instore: To store up; to inclose; to contain. [Obs.] Wyclif.
insubmission: Want of submission; disobedience; noncompliance.
insufficiently: In an insufficient manner or degree; unadequately.
intagliated: Engraved in intaglio; as, an intagliated stone. T. Warton.
integer: A complete entity; a whole number, in contradistinction to afraction or a mixed number. Complex integer (Theory of Numbers), anexpression of the form a + bsq. root-1, where a and b are realintegers.
integrable: Capable of being integrated.
intemperancy: Intemperance. [Obs.]
intender: One who intends. Feltham.
intendiment: Attention; consideration; knowledge; understanding. [Obs.]Spenser.
intenible: Incapable of holding or containing. [Obs.]This captious and intenible sieve. Shak.
intentional: Done by intention or design; intended; designed; as, the actwas intentional, not accidental.
intercentrum: The median of the three elements composing the centra of thevertebræ in some fossil batrachians.
intercommunication: Mutual communication. Owen.
intercross: To fertilize by the impregnation of one species or variety byanother; to impregnate by a different species or variety.
interdependent: Mutually dependent.
interdome: The open space between the inner and outer shells of a dome orcupola of masonry.
interestingness: The condition or quality of being interesting. A. Smith.
interfere: To act reciprocally, so as to augment, diminish, or otherwiseaffect one another; -- said of waves, rays of light, heat, etc. SeeInterference, 2.
interferometer: An instrument for measuring small movements, distances, ordisplacements by means of the interference of two beams of light; --called also refractometer.
interim: A name given to each of three compromises made by the emperorCharles V. of Germany for the sake of harmonizing the connectingopinions of Protestants and Catholics.
interjectionally: In an interjectional manner. G. Eliot.
interknowledge: Mutual knowledge or acquaintance. [Obs.] Bacon.
interleave: To insert a leaf or leaves in; to bind with blank leavesinserted between the others; as, to interleave a book.
interline: Contained between lines; written or inserted between linesalready written or printed; containing interlineations; as, aninterlinear manuscript, translation, etc.-- In`ter*lin"e*ar*ly, adv.
interlucent: Shining between.
interluded: Inserted in the manner of an interlude; having or containinginterludes.
intermeation: A flowing between. [Obs.] Bailey.
intermediary: Lying, coming, or done, between; intermediate; as, anintermediary project. Intermediary amputation (Surg.), an amputationfor injury, performed after inflammation has set in.
intermediator: A mediator.
intermedious: Intermediate. [R.] Cudworth.
intermetacarpal: Between the metacarpal bones.
intermigration: Reciprocal migration; interchange of dwelling place bymigration. [R.] Sir M. Hale.
interminableness: The state of being endless.
interminated: Interminable; interminate; endless; unending. [Obs.] Akenside.
intermise: Interference; interposition. [Obs.] Bacon.
intermix: To mix together; to intermingle.In yonder spring of roses, intermixed With myrtle, find what toredress till noon. Milton.
intermundane: Being, between worlds or orbs. [R.] "Intermundane spaces."Locke.
intermure: To wall in; to inclose. [Obs.] Ford.
interne: That which is within; the interior. [Poetic] Mrs. Browning.
interpause: An intermission. [R.]
interpel: To interrupt, break in upon, or intercede with. [Obs.]I am interpelled by many businesses. Howell.
interpetalary: Between the petals of a flower.
interplead: To plead against each other, or go to trial between themselves,as the claimants in an in an interpleader. See Interpleader. [Writtenalso enterplead.]
interposal: The act of interposing; interposition; intervention.
interpreter: One who or that which interprets, explains, or expounds; atranslator; especially, a person who translates orally between twoparties.We think most men's actions to be the interpreters of their thoughts.Locke.
interpretive: Interpretative. [R.]
interpunction: The insertion of points between word or sentences; punctuation.
interrogatee: One who is interrogated.
intersert: To put in between other things; to insert. [Obs.] Brerewood.
interstate: Pertaining to the mutual relations of States; existing between,or including, different States; as, interstate commerce. Story.
intersternal: Between the sternal; -- said of certain membranes or parts ofinsects and crustaceans.
interstinctive: Distinguishing. [Obs.] Wallis.
interstitial: Of or pertaining to interstices; intermediate; within thetissues; as, interstitial cavities or spaces in the tissues ofanimals or plants.
intertalk: To converse. [Obs.] Carew.
intertraffic: Mutual trade of traffic.
intertropical: Situated between or within the tropics. J. Morse.
intertwiningly: By intertwining or being intertwined.
intervary: To alter or vary between; to change. [Obs.] Rush.
interveined: Intersected, as with veins.
intervenient: Being or coming between; intercedent; interposed. [Obs.] Bacon.
intervisible: Mutually visible, or in sight, the one from the other, asstations.
intervisit: To exchange visits. [R.] Evelyn.
inthronize: To enthrone.
intimidation: The act of making timid or fearful or of deterring by threats;the state of being intimidated; as, the voters were kept from thepolls by intimidation.The king carried his measures in Parliament by intimidation. Paley.
intitule: To entitle; to give a title to. Selden.
intolerancy: Intolerance. Bailey.
intombment: See Entombment.
intonate: To thunder. [Obs.] Bailey.
intracranial: Within the cranium or skull. Sir W. Hamilton.
intransigentes: The extreme radicals; the party of the irreconcilables.
intransmutability: The quality of being intransmutable.
intrant: Entering; penetrating.
intreatable: Not to be entreated; inexorable.
intrenchment: Any defensive work consisting of at least a trench or ditch anda parapet made from the earth thrown up in making such a ditch.On our side, we have thrown up intrenchments on Winter and ProspectHills. Washington.
intricable: Entangling. [Obs.] Shelton.
intricately: In an intricate manner.
intrigante: A female intriguer.
intrigue: To fill with artifice and duplicity; to complicate; toembarrass. [Obs.]How doth it [sin] perplex and intrique the whole course of yourlives! Dr. J. Scott.
intrinsicate: Intricate. [Obs.] Shak.
intromittent: Used in copulation; -- said of the external reproductive organsof the males of many animals, and sometimes of those of the females.
intromitter: One who intromits.
introversion: The act of introverting, or the state of being introverted; theact of turning the mind inward. Berkeley.
intwinement: The act of twinning, or the state of being intwined.
inutterable: Unutterable; inexpressible. Milton.
invaginate: To insert as in a sheath; to pr
invalidate: To render invalid; to weaken or lessen the force of; to destroythe authority of; to render of no force or effect; to overthrow; as,to invalidate an agreement or argument.
inventory: An account, catalogue, or schedule, made by an executor oradministrator, of all the goods and chattels, and sometimes of thereal estate, of a deceased person; a list of the property of which aperson or estate is found to be possessed; hence, an itemized list ofgoods or valuables, with their estimated worth; specifically, theannual account of stock taken in any business.There take an inventory of all I have. Shak.
inventress: A woman who invents. Dryden.
invertebral: Same as Invertebrate.
invertedly: In an inverted order. Derham.
inviscate: To daub or catch with glue or birdlime; to entangle withglutinous matter. [R.] Sir T. Browne.
inviting: Alluring; tempting; as, an inviting amusement or prospect.Nothing is so easy and inviting as the retort of abuse and sarcasm.W. Irving.-- In*vit"ing*ly, adv.-- In*vit"ing*ness, n. Jer. Taylor.
involucret: An involucel.
involuntarily: In an involuntary manner; not voluntarily; not intentionally orwillingly.
involvement: The act of involving, or the state of being involved. LewWallace.
invulnerability: Quality or state of being invulnerable.
inwork: To work in or within.
iodine: A nonmetallic element, of the halogen group, occurring alwaysin combination, as in the iodides. When isolated it is in the form ofdark gray metallic scales, resembling plumbago, soft but brittle, andemitting a chlorinelike odor. Symbol I. Atomic weight 126.5. Ifheated, iodine volatilizes in beautiful violet vapors.
iodism: A morbid state produced by the use of iodine and its compounds,and characterized by palpitation, depression, and general emaciation,with a pustular eruption upon the skin.
irenicon: A proposition or device for securing peace, especially in thechurch. South.
iridal: Of or pertaining to the iris or rainbow; prismatic; as, theiridal colors. Whewell.
iridectomy: The act or process of cutting out a portion of the iris inorder to form an artificial pupil.
iridic: Of or pertaining to the iris of the eye.
iridium: A rare metallic element, of the same group as platinum, whichit much resembles, being silver-white, but harder, and brittle, andindifferent to most corrosive agents. With the exception of osmium,it is the heaviest substance known, its specific gravity being 22.4.Symbol Ir. Atomic weight 192.5.
irish: Of or pertaining to Ireland or to its inhabitants; produced inIreland. Irish elk. (Zoöl.) See under Elk.-- Irish moss. (a) (Bot.) Carrageen. (b) A preparation of the samemade into a blanc mange.-- Irish poplin. See Poplin.-- Irish potato, the ordinary white potato, so called because it isa favorite article of food in Ireland.-- Irish reef, or Irishman's reef (Naut.), the head of a sail tiedup.-- Irish stew, meat, potatoes, and onions, cut in small pieces andstewed.
irishman: A man born in Ireland or of the Irish race; an Hibernian.Irishman's hurricane (Naut.), a dead calm.-- Irishman's reef. (Naut.) See Irish reef, under Irish, a.
ironsmith: An East Indian barbet (Megalaima faber), inhabiting the Islandof Hainan. The name alludes to its note, which resembles the soundsmade by a smith.
iroquoian: Of, pertaining to, or designating, one of the principallinguistic stocks of the North American Indians. The territory of thenorthern Iroquoian tribes, of whom the Five Nations, or Iroquoisproper, were the chief, extended from the shores of the St. Lawrenceand of Lakes Huron, Ontario, and Erie south, through easternPennsylvania, to Maryland; that of the southern tribes, of whom theCherokees were chief, formed part of Virginia, the Carolinas,Georgia, Tennessee, and Kentucky. All of the tribes wereagricultural, and they were noted for large, communal houses,palisaded towns, and ability to organize, as well as for skill inwar. --n.
irreflective: Not reflective. De Quincey.
irreligion: The state of being irreligious; want of religion; impiety.
irrepressible: Not capable of being repressed, restrained, or controlled; as,irrepressible joy; an irrepressible conflict. W. H. Steward.
irreprovable: Incapable of being justly reproved; irreproachable; blameless;upright.-- Ir`re*prov"a*ble*ness, n.-- Ir`re*prov"a*bly, adv.
irresistless: Irresistible. [Obs.] Glanvill.
irresponsive: Not responsive; not able, ready, or inclined to respond.
irreverence: The state or quality of being irreverent; want of properreverence; disregard of the authority and character of a superior.
irritability: A natural susceptibility, characteristic of all livingorganisms, tissues, and cells, to the influence of certain stimuli,response being manifested in a variety of ways, -- as that quality inplants by which they exhibit motion under suitable stimulation; esp.,the property which living muscle processes, of responding either to adirect stimulus of its substance, or to the stimulating influence ofits nerve fibers, the response being indicated by a change of form,or contraction; contractility.
isabelline: Of an isabel or isabella color.
ischiorectal: Of or pertaining to the region between the rectum and ishialtuberosity.
ishmaelitish: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, an Ishmaelite or theIshmaelites.
isidorian: Pertaining, or ascribed, to Isidore; as, the Isidoriandecretals, a spurious collection of decretals published in the ninthcentury.
islamize: To conform, or cause to conform, to the religion of Islam.
isobarism: The quality or state of being equal in weight, especially inatmospheric pressure. Also, the theory, method, or application ofisobaric science.
isobathytherm: A line connecting the points on the surface of the earth wherea certain temperature is found at the same depth.
isocephalism: A peculiarity in the design of bas-relief by which the heads ofhuman figures are kept at the same height from the ground, whetherthe personages are seated, standing, or mounted on horseback; --called also isokephaleia.
isocheim: A line connecting places on the earth having the same meanwinter temperature. Cf. Isothere.
isolation: The act of isolating, or the state of being isolated;insulation; separation; loneliness. Milman.
isomeromorphism: Isomorphism between substances that are isomeric.
isopod: Having the legs similar in structure; belonging to the Isopoda.-- n.
isopoda: An order of sessile-eyed Crustacea, usually having seven pairsof legs, which are all similar in structure.
isosporic: Producing but one kind of spore, as the ferns and Equiseta. Cf.Heterosporic.
isothere: A line connecting points on the earth's surface having the samemean summer temperature.
isotherm: A line connecting or marking points on the earth's surfacehaving the same temperature. This may be the temperature for a giventime of observation, or the mean temperature for a year or otherperiod. Also, a similar line based on the distribution of temperaturein the ocean.
isothermobath: A line drawn through points of equal temperature in a verticalsection of the ocean.
israelite: A descendant of Israel, or Jacob; a Hebrew; a Jew.
it: The neuter pronoun of the third person, corresponding to themasculine pronoun he and the feminine she, and having the same plural(they, their of theirs, them).
itch: An eruption of small, isolated, acuminated vesicles, producedby the entrance of a parasitic mite (the Sarcoptes scabei), andattended with itching. It is transmissible by contact.
iteration: Recital or performance a second time; repetition. Bacon.What needs this iteration, woman Shak.
itinerantly: In an itinerant manner.
jacana: Any of several wading birds belonging to the genus Jacana andseveral allied genera, all of which have spurs on the wings. They areable to run about over floating water weeds by means of their verylong, spreading toes. Called also surgeon bird.
jacconet: See Jaconet.
jacobine: A Jacobin.
jaculable: Fit for throwing. [Obs.]
jakie: A South American striped frog (Pseudis paradoxa), remarkablefor having a tadpole larger than the adult, and hence called alsoparadoxical frog.
jalons: Long poles, topped with wisps of straw, used as landmarks andsignals. Farrow.
jalousie: A Venetian or slatted inside window blind.
jalousied: Furnished with jalousies; as, jalousied porches.
jamadar: Same as Jemidar.
janissary: See Janizary.
janitor: A door-keeper; a porter; one who has the care of a publicbuilding, or a building occupied for offices, suites of rooms, etc.
january: The first month of the year, containing thirty-one days.
japonism: A quality, idiom, or peculiarity characteristic of the Japaneseor their products, esp. in art.
jargle: To emit a harsh or discordant sound. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
jashawk: A young hawk. Booth.
jasper: An opaque, impure variety of quartz, of red, yellow, and otherdull colors, breaking with a smooth surface. It admits of a highpolish, and is used for vases, seals, snuff boxes, etc. When thecolors are in stripes or bands, it is called striped or bandedjasper. The Egyptian pebble is a brownish yellow jasper. Jasper opal,a yellow variety of opal resembling jasper.-- Jasper ware, a delicate kind of earthenware invented by JosiahWedgwood. It is usually white, but is capable of receiving color.
jasperated: mixed with jasper; containing particles of jasper; as,jasperated agate.
jasperize: To convert into, or make to resemble, jasper.Polished specimens of jasperized and agatized woods. Pop. Sci.Monthly.
jaundice: A morbid condition, characterized by yellowness of the eyes,skin, and urine, whiteness of the fæces, constipation, uneasiness inthe region of the stomach, loss of appetite, and general languor andlassitude. It is caused usually by obstruction of the biliarypassages and consequent damming up, in the liver, of the bile, whichis then absorbed into the blood. Blue jaundice. See Cyanopathy.
jawfoot: See Maxilliped.
jay: Any one of the numerous species of birds belonging to Garrulus,Cyanocitta, and allied genera. They are allied to the crows, but aresmaller, more graceful in form, often handsomely colored, and usuallyhave a crest.
jeerer: A scoffer; a railer; a mocker.
jehovah: A Scripture name of the Supreme Being, by which he was revealedto the Jews as their covenant God or Sovereign of the theocracy; the"ineffable name" of the Supreme Being, which was not pronounced bythe Jews.
jejunity: The quality of being jejune; jejuneness.
jellied: Brought to the state or consistence of jelly.
jeopard: To put in jeopardy; to expose to loss or injury; to imperil; tohazard. Sir T. North.A people that jeoparded their lives unto the death. Judg. v. 18.
jerker: A North American river chub (Hybopsis biguttatus).
jerky: Moving by jerks and starts; characterized by abrupttransitions; as, a jerky vehicle; a jerky style.
jessamine: Same as Jasmine.
jesu: Jesus. [Poetical]
jesuitry: Jesuitism; subtle argument. [R.] Carlyle.
jeweler: One who makes, or deals in, jewels, precious stones, andsimilar ornaments. [Written also jeweller.] Jeweler's gold. See underGold.
jewry: Judea; also, a district inhabited by Jews; a Jews' quarter.Chaucer.Teaching throughout all Jewry. Luke xxiii. 5.
jiffy: A moment; an instant; as, I will be ready in a jiffy. [Colloq.]J. & H. Smith.
jingling: The act or process of producing a jingle; also, the sounditself; a chink. "The jingling of the guinea." Tennyson.
jinnee: A genius or demon; one of the fabled genii, good and evilspirits, supposed to be the children of fire, and to have the powerof assuming various forms. [Written also jin, djinnee, etc.]
job: To buy and sell, as a broker; to purchase of importers ormanufacturers for the purpose of selling to retailers; as, to jobgoods.
jockeyism: The practice of jockeys.
jocularity: Jesting; merriment.
jointless: Without a joint; rigid; stiff.
jointweed: A slender, nearly leafless, American herb (Polygonumarticulatum), with jointed spikes of small flowers.
jonah: The Hebrew prophet, who was cast overboard as one whoendangered the ship; hence, any person whose presence isunpropitious. Jonah crab (Zoöl.), a large crab (Cancer borealis) ofthe eastern coast of the United States, sometimes found betweentides, but usually in deep water.
jostle: To run against and shake; to push out of the way; to elbow; tohustle; to disturb by crowding; to crowd against. "Bullies jostledhim." Macaulay.Systems of movement, physical, intellectual, and moral, which areperpetually jostling each other. I. Taylor.
journeyer: One who journeys.
jovialty: Joviality. [R.] Barrow.
judicative: Having power to judge; judicial; as, the judicative faculty.Hammond.
jugata: The figures of two heads on a medal or coin, either side byside or joined.
juglandine: An alkaloid found in the leaves of the walnut (Juglans regia).
juiceless: Lacking juice; dry. Dr. H. More.
july: The seventh month of the year, containing thirty-one days.
jumbler: One who confuses things.
jument: A beast; especially, a beast of burden. [Obs.]Fitter for juments than men to feed on. Burton.
juniperin: A yellow amorphous substance extracted from juniper berries.
juratory: Relating to or comprising an oath; as, juratory caution.Ayliffe.
jurel: A yellow carangoid fish of the Atlantic and Gulf coasts (Caranxchrysos), most abundant southward, where it is valued as a food fish;-- called also hardtail, horse crevallé, jack, buffalo jack,skipjack, yellow mackerel, and sometimes, improperly, horse mackerel.Other species of Caranx (as C. fallax) are also sometimes calledjurel.
jurisdictive: Having jurisdiction. Milton.
jury: For temporary use; -- applied to a temporary contrivance. Jurymast, a temporary mast, in place of one that has been carried away,or broken.-- Jury rudder, a rudder constructed for temporary use.
juryman: One who is impaneled on a jury, or who serves as a juror.
justiciable: Proper to be examined in a court of justice. Bailey.
justificator: One who justifies or vindicates; a justifier. Johnson.
justifier: One who justifies; one who vindicates, supports, defends, orabsolves.Justifiers of themselves and hypocrites. Strype.That he might be just, and the justifier of him which believeth inJesus. Rom. iii. 26.
jute: The coarse, strong fiber of the East Indian Corchorusolitorius, and C. capsularis; also, the plant itself. The fiber ismuch used for making mats, gunny cloth, cordage, hangings, paper,etc.
juvenile: A young person or youth; -- used sportively or familiarly. C.Bronté.
kaama: The hartbeest.
kadder: The jackdaw.
kakaralli: A kind of wood common in Demerara, durable in salt water,because not subject to the depredations of the sea worm and barnacle.
kakistocracy: Government by the worst men.
karatas: A West Indian plant of the Pineapple family (NidulariumKaratas).
katastate: (Physiol.) A substance formed by a katabolic process; --opposed to anastate. See Katabolic.
kauri: A lofty coniferous tree of New Zealand Agathis, or Dammara,australis), furnishing valuable timber and yielding one kind ofdammar resin. [Written also kaudi, cowdie, and cowrie.]
kayko: The dog salmon.
kecksy: The hollow stalk of an umbelliferous plant, such as the cowparsnip or the hemlock. [Written also kex, and in pl., kecks, kaxes.]Nothing teems But hateful docks, rough thistles, kecksies, burs.Shak.
kedge: To move (a vessel) by carrying out a kedge in a boat, droppingit overboard, and hauling the vessel up to it.
kedlock: See Charlock.
keep: A cap for retaining anything, as a journal box, in place. Totake keep, to take care; to heed. [Obs.] Chaucer.
keir: See Kier.
kelp: Any large blackish seaweed.
kelt: See Kilt, n. Jamieson.
keltic: Same as Celtic, a. & n.
kemps: The long flower stems of the ribwort plantain (PlantagoLanceolata). Dr. Prior.
keratode: See Keratose.
kerb: See Curb.
kerl: See Carl.
kerosene: An oil used for illuminating purposes, formerly obtained fromthe distillation of mineral wax, bituminous shale, etc., and hencecalled also coal oil. It is now produced in immense quantities,chiefly by the distillation and purification of petroleum. Itconsists chiefly of several hydrocarbons of the methane series.
kerver: A carver. [Obs.] Chaucer.
kickable: Capable or deserving of being kicked. "A kickable boy." G.Eliot.
kiddle: A kind of basketwork wear in a river, for catching fish.[Improperly spelled kittle.]
kike: To gaze; to stare. [Obs.] Chaucer.
kilderkin: A small barrel; an old liquid measure containing eighteenEnglish beer gallons, or nearly twenty-two gallons, United Statesmeasure. [Written also kinderkin.]
killifish: Any one of several small American cyprinodont fishes of thegenus Fundulus and allied genera. They live equally well in fresh andbrackish water, or even in the sea. They are usually striped orbarred with black. Called also minnow, and brook fish. See Minnow.
kilovolt: A unit of electromotive force equal to one thousand volts.
kinesodic: Conveying motion; as; kinesodic substance; -- applied esp. tothe spinal cord, because it is capable of conveying doth voluntaryand reflex motor impulses, without itself being affected by motorimpulses applied to it directly.
kingcup: The common buttercup.
kingfisher: Any one of numerous species of birds constituting the familyAlcedinidæ. Most of them feed upon fishes which they capture bydiving and seizing then with the beak; others feed only uponreptiles, insects, etc. About one hundred and fifty species areknown. They are found in nearly all parts of the world, but areparticularly abundant in the East Indies.
kingling: Same as Kinglet, 1. Churchill.
kinoyl: See Quinoyl.
kiosk: A Turkish open summer house or pavilion, supported by pillars.
kipe: An osier basket used for catching fish. [Prov. Eng.]
kirk: A church or the church, in the various senses of the word;esp., the Church of Scotland as distinguished from other reformedchurches, or from the Roman Catholic Church. [Scot.] Jamieson.
kirschwasser: An alcoholic liquor, obtained by distilling the fermented juiceof the small black cherry.
kit: To cut. [Obs.] Chaucer.
kitte: of Kit to cut. [Obs.] Chaucer.
kittysol: The Chinese paper parasol.
kiver: To cover.-- n.
klopemania: See Kleptomania.
knabble: To bite or nibble. [Obs.]Horses will knabble at walls, and rats gnaw iron. Sir T. Browne.
knagged: Full of knots; knaggy.
knap: A protuberance; a swelling; a knob; a button; hence, risingground; a summit. See Knob, and Knop.The highest part and knap of the same island. Holland.
knappish: Snappish; peevish. [Obs.] Grafton.
knar: See Gnar. [Obs.] Chaucer.
kneadable: That may be kneaded; capable of being worked into a mass.
kneader: One who kneads.
knee: A piece of timber or metal formed with an angle somewhat in theshape of the human knee when bent.
kneelingly: In a kneeling position.
knelt: of Kneel.
knobkerrie: A short club with a knobbed end used as a missile weapon byKafir and other native tribes of South Africa.
knockdown: A felling by a knock, as of a combatant, or of an animal.
knor: See Knur. [Obs.]
knosp: Same as Knop,2. Milman.
knotweed: See Knot.
knowleching: Knowledge. [Obs.] Chaucer.
knurly: Full of knots; hard; tough; hence, capable of enduring orresisting much.
koff: A two-masted Dutch vessel.
koumiss: An intoxicating fermented or distilled liquor originally madeby the Tartars from mare's or camel's milk. It can be obtained fromany kind of milk, and is now largely made in Europe. [Written alsokoumyss, kumiss, kumish, and kumys.]Koumiss has from time immemorial served the Tartar instead of wine orspirits. J. H. Newman.
kreng: See Krang.
kreosote: See Creosote.
krokidolite: See Crocidolite.
krone: A coin of Denmark, Norway, and Sweden, of the value of abouttwenty-eight cents. See Crown, n., 9.
kruller: See Cruller.
ksar: See Czar.
kuskus: See Vetiver.
kyanize: To render (wood) proof against decay by saturating with asolution of corrosive sublimate in open tanks, or under pressure.
labdanum: See Ladanum.
labyrinthici: An order of teleostean fishes, including the Anabas, orclimbing perch, and other allied fishes.
labyrinthodont: Of or pertaining to the Labyrinthodonta.-- n.
lacertine: Lacertian.
lacinia: The posterior, inner process of the stipes on the maxillæ ofinsects.
laciniolate: Consisting of, or abounding in, very minute laciniæ.
lackbrain: One who is deficient in understanding; a witless person. Shak.
laconicism: Same as Laconism. Pope.
lacteal: Pertaining to, or containing, chyle; as, the lacteal vessels.
lacteally: Milkily; in the manner of milk.
lactide: A white, crystalline substance, obtained from also, byextension, any similar substance.
lactifuge: A medicine to check the secretion of milk, or to dispel asupposed accumulation of milk in any part of the body.
lactose: Sugar of milk or milk sugar; a crystalline sugar present inmilk, and separable from the whey by evaporation and crystallization.It has a slightly sweet taste, is dextrorotary, and is much lesssoluble in water than either cane sugar or glucose. Formerly calledlactin.
ladykin: A little lady; -- applied by the writers of Queen Elizabeth'stime, in the abbreviated form Lakin, to the Virgin Mary.
laft: of Leave. Chaucer.
lagan: See Ligan.
lagomorpha: A group of rodents, including the hares. They have fourincisors in the upper jaw. Called also Duplicidentata.
lagthing: See Legislatature, below.
lamel: See Lamella.
lamellirostres: A group of birds embracing the Anseres and flamingoes, in whichthe bill is lamellate.
lamentation: A book of the Old Testament attributed to the prophet Jeremiah,and taking its name from the nature of its contents.
laminitis: Inflammation of the laminæ or fleshy plates along the coffinbone of a horse; founder. Youatt.
landaulet: A small landau.
landholder: A holder, owner, or proprietor of land.-- Land"hold`ing, n. & a.
landless: Having no property in land.
landlubber: One who passes his life on land; -- so called among seamen incontempt or ridicule.
langarey: One of numerous species of long-winged, shrikelike birds ofAustralia and the East Indies, of the genus Artamus, and alliedgenera; called also wood swallow.
lanigerous: Bearing or producing wool.
lanseh: The small, whitish brown fruit of an East Indian tree (Lansiumdomesticum). It has a fleshy pulp, with an agreeable subacid taste.Balfour.
lanthorn: See Lantern. [Obs.]
lanyard: A short piece of rope or line for fastening something in ships;as, the lanyards of the gun ports, of the buoy, and the like; esp.,pieces passing through the dead-eyes, and used to extend shrouds,stays, etc.
lapidification: The act or process of lapidifying; fossilization; petrifaction.
lapping: A kind of machine blanket or wrapping material used by calicoprinters. Ure. Lapping engine, Lapping machine (Textile Manuf.), Amachine for forming fiber info a lap. See its Lap, 9.
larcenous: Having the character of larceny; as, a larcenous act;committing larceny. "The larcenous and burglarious world." SydneySmith.-- Lar"ce*nous*ly, adv.
larder: A room or place where meat and other articles of food are keptbefore they are cooked. Shak.
lare: Lore; learning. [Obs.]
largeness: The quality or state of being large.
largish: Somewhat large. [Colloq.]
larine: Of or pertaining to the Gull family (Laridæ).
larvated: Masked; clothed as with a mask.
lary: A guillemot; -- called also lavy. [Prov. Eng.]
laryngitis: Inflammation of the larynx.
laryngoscopic: Of or pertaining to the inspection of the larynx.
laryngotomy: The operation of cutting into the larynx, from the outside ofthe neck, for assisting respiration when obstructed, or for removingforeign bodies.
lascious: Loose; lascivious. [Obs.] "To depaint lascious wantonness."Holland.
lasher: One who whips or lashes.
last: of Last, to endure, contracted from lasteth. [Obs.] Chaucer.
lated: Belated; too late. [Obs.] Shak.
lately: Not long ago; recently; as, he has lately arrived from Italy.
latently: In a secret or concealed manner; invisibly.
lateran: The church and palace of St. John Lateran, the church being thecathedral church of Rome, and the highest in rank of all churches inthe Catholic world.
latered: Inclined to delay; dilatory. [Obs.] "When a man is toolatered." Chaucer.
laterifolious: Growing from the stem by the side of a leaf; as, alaterifolious flower.
lath: A thin, narrow strip of wood, nailed to the rafters, studs, orfloor beams of a building, for the purpose of supporting the tiles,plastering, etc. A corrugated metallic strip or plate is sometimesused. Lath brick, a long, slender brick, used in making the floor onwhich malt is placed in the drying kiln. Lath nail a slender nail forfastening laths.
lathwork: Same as Lathing.
latian: Belonging, or relating, to Latium, a country of ancient Italy.See Latin.
latibulum: A concealed hiding place; a burrow; a lair; a hole.
latitudinous: Having latitude, or wide extent.
latrate: To bark as a dog. [Obs.]
latria: The highest kind of worship, or that paid to God; --distinguished by the Roman Catholics from dulia, or the inferiorworship paid to saints.
laughworthy: Deserving to be laughed at. [R.] B. Jonson.
launderer: One who follows the business of laundering.
laura: A number of hermitages or cells in the same neighborhoodoccupied by anchorites who were under the same superior. C. Kingsley.
laurinol: Ordinary camphor; -- so called in allusion to the family name(Lauraceæ) of the camphor trees. See Camphor.
laxiity: The state or quality of being lax; want of tenseness,strictness, or exactness.
lazar: A person infected with a filthy or pestilential disease; aleper. Chaucer.Like loathsome lazars, by the hedges lay. Spenser.Lazar house a lazaretto; also, a hospital for quarantine.
lazarwort: Laserwort.
lazuli: A mineral of a fine azure-blue color, usually in small roundedmasses. It is essentially a silicate of alumina, lime, and soda, withsome sodium sulphide, is often marked by yellow spots or veins ofsulphide of iron, and is much valued for ornamental work. Called alsolapis lazuli, and Armenian stone.
leasable: Such as can be leased.
least: Smallest, either in size or degree; shortest; lowest; mostunimportant; as, the least insect; the least mercy; the least space.
leasy: Flimsy; vague; deceptive. [Obs.] Ascham.
lecanorin: See Lecanoric.
lectureship: The office of a lecturer.
leef: See Lief. [Obs.] Chaucer.
leeringly: In a leering manner.
leftward: Toward or on the left side.Rightward and leftward rise the rocks. Southey.
leg: The course and distance made by a vessel on one tack or betweentacks.
legally: In a legal manner.
leger: Lying or remaining in a place; hence, resident; as, legerambassador.
legerdemainist: One who practices sleight of hand; a prestidigitator.
legging: , from Leg, v. t.
legion: A body of foot soldiers and cavalry consisting of differentnumbers at different periods, -- from about four thousand to aboutsix thousand men, -- the cavalry being about one tenth.
legionry: A body of legions; legions, collectively. [R.] Pollok.
legislatorial: Of or pertaining to a legislator or legislature.
legitimatist: See Legitimist.
legitimism: The principles or plans of legitimists.
lemman: A leman. [Obs.] Chaucer.
lenient: A lenitive; an emollient.
lenify: To assuage; to soften; to Bacon. Dryden.
leno: A light open cotton fabric used for window curtains.
lentamente: Slowly; in slow time.
lentando: Slackening; retarding. Same as Rallentando.
leopardwood: See Letterwood.
lepadoid: A stalked barnacle of the genus Lepas, or family Lepadidæ; agoose barnacle. Also used adjectively.
leperize: To affect with leprosy.
lepidodendron: A genus of fossil trees of the Devonian and Carboniferous ages,having the exterior marked with scars, mostly in quincunx order,produced by the separation of the leafstalks.
lepidoganoid: Any one of a division (Lepidoganoidei) of ganoid fishes,including those that have scales forming a coat of mail. Also usedadjectively.
leptocardian: Of or pertaining to the Leptocardia.-- n.
lessener: One who, or that which, lessens.His wife . . . is the lessener of his pain, and the augmenter of hispleasure. J. Rogers (1839).
lesses: The leavings or dung of beasts.
letheed: Caused by Lethe. " Letheed dullness." [Obs.] Shak.
leucaniline: A colorless, crystalline, organic base, obtained fromrosaniline by reduction, and also from other sources. It formscolorless salts.
leuchaemia: See Leucocythæmia.-- Leu*chæm"ic, a. [Written also leukæmia, leukæmic.]
leucitoid: The trapezohedron or tetragonal trisoctahedron; -- so called asbeing the form of the mineral leucite.
leucomaine: An animal base or alkaloid, appearing in the tissue duringlife; hence, a vital alkaloid, as distinguished from a ptomaine orcadaveric poison.
leucoxene: A nearly opaque white mineral, in part identical with titanite,observed in some igneous rocks as the result of the alteration oftitanic iron.
leve: Dear. See Lief. [Obs.] Chaucer.
leven: Lightning. [Obs.]Wild thunder dint and fiery leven. Chaucer.
levier: One who levees. Cartwright.
levigate: Made less harsh or burdensome; alleviated. [Obs.] Sir. T.Elyot.
lexipharmic: See Alexipharmic.
ley: , & i. To lay; to wager. [Obs.] Chaucer.
libatory: Pertaining to libation.
liberal: One who favors greater freedom in political or religiousmatters; an opponent of the established systems; a reformer; inEnglish politics, a member of the Liberal party, so called. Cf. Whig.
liberally: In a liberal manner.
liberation: The act of liberating or the state of being liberated.This mode of analysis requires perfect liberation from all prejudgedsystem. Pownall.
libertarian: Pertaining to liberty, or to the doctrine of free will, asopposed to the doctrine of necessity.
libertine: A manumitted slave; a freedman; also, the son of a freedman.
libidinous: Having lustful desires; characterized by lewdness; sensual;lascivious.-- Li*bid"i*nous*ly, adv.-- Li*bid"i*nous*ness, n.
librate: To vibrate as a balance does before resting in equilibrium;hence, to be poised.Their parts all liberate on too nice a beam. Clifton.
licensure: A licensing. [R.]
licorice: A plant of the genus Glycyrrhiza (G. glabra), the root of whichabounds with a juice, and is much used in demulcent compositions.
lidge: Same Ledge.[Obs.] Spenser.
ligature: A curve or line connecting notes; a slur.
lignitiferous: Producing or containing lignite; lignitic.
limaceous: Pertaining to, or like, Limax, or the slugs.
limber: The shafts or thills of a wagon or carriage. [Prov. Eng.]
lime: A thong by which a dog is led; a leash. Halliwell.
limited: Confined within limits; narrow; circumscribed; restricted; as,our views of nature are very limited. Limited company, a company inwhich the liability of each shareholder is limited by the number ofshares he has taken, so that he can not be called on to contributebeyond the amount of his shares. [Eng.] Mozley & W.
limonin: A bitter, white, crystalline substance found in orange andlemon seeds.
limpingly: In a limping manner.
lineament: One of the outlines, exterior features, or distinctive marks,of a body or figure, particularly of the face; feature; form; mark; -- usually in the plural. "The lineaments of the body." Locke."Lineaments in the character." Swift.Man he seems In all his lineaments. Milton.
linguality: The quality of being lingual.
lingulate: Shaped like the tongue or a strap; ligulate.
linoleic: Pertaining to, or derived from, linoleum, or linseed oil;specifically (Chem.), designating an organic acid, a thin yellow oil,found combined as a salt of glycerin in oils of linseed, poppy, hemp,and certain nuts.
linsey: Linsey-woolsey.
linstock: A pointed forked staff, shod with iron at the foot, to hold alighted match for firing cannon. [Written also lintstock.]
lioness: A female lion.
lipans: A tribe of North American Inedians, inhabiting the northernpart of Mexico. They belong to the Tinneh stock, and are closelyrelated to the Apaches.
liparian: Any species of a family (Liparidæ) of destructive bombycidmoths, as the tussock moths.
liplet: A little lip.
lipoma: A tumor consisting of fat or adipose tissue.-- Li*pom"a*tous, a.
liquefiable: Capable of being changed from a solid to a liquid state.
liquescency: The quality or state of being liquescent. Johnson.
liripipe: See Liripoop.
lisle: A city of France celebrated for certain manufactures. Lisleglove, a fine summer glove, made of Lisle thread.-- Lisle lace, a fine handmade lace, made at Lisle.-- Lisle thread, a hard twisted cotton thread, originally producedat Lisle.
lispingly: With a lisp; in a lisping manner.
literality: The state or quality of being literal. Sir T. Browne.
literati: Learned or literary men. See Literatus.Shakespearean commentators, and other literati. Craik.
litho: A combining form from Gr. stone.
lithoglyptics: The art of cutting and engraving gems.
litre: Same as Liter.
lituate: Forked, with the points slightly curved outward.
lituiform: Having the form of a lituus; like a lituite.
liturgiologist: One versed in liturgiology.
live: Imparting power; having motion; as, the live spindle of alathe. Live birth, the condition of being born in such a state thatacts of life are manifested after the extrusion of the whole body.Dunglison.-- Live box, a cell for holding living objects under microscopicalexamination. P. H. Gosse.-- Live feathers, feathers which have been plucked from the livingbird, and are therefore stronger and more elastic.-- Live gang. (Sawing) See under Gang.-- Live grass (Bot.), a grass of the genus Eragrostis.-- Live load (Engin.), a suddenly applied load; a varying load; amoving load; as a moving train of cars on a bridge, or wind pressureon a roof. Live oak (Bot.), a species of oak (Quercus virens),growing in the Southern States, of great durability, and highlyesteemed for ship timber. In California the Q. chrysolepis and someother species are also called live oaks.-- Live ring (Engin.), a circular train of rollers upon which aswing bridge, or turntable, rests, and which travels around acircular track when the bridge or table turns.-- Live steam , steam direct from the boiler, used for any purpose,in distinction from exhaust steam.-- Live stock, horses, cattle, and other domestic animals kept on afarm. whole body.
livor: Malignity. [P.] Burton.
loathing: Extreme disgust; a feeling of aversion, nausea, abhorrence, ordetestation.The mutual fear and loathing of the hostile races. Macaulay.
lobby: A passage or hall of communication, especially when largeenough to serve also as a waiting room. It differs from anantechamber in that a lobby communicates between several rooms, anantechamber to one only; but this distinction is not carefullypreserved.
localize: To make local; to fix in, or assign to, a definite place. H.Spencer. Wordsworth.
location: The marking out of the boundaries, or identifying the place orsite of, a piece of land, according to the description given in anentry, plan, map, etc. Burrill. Bouvier.
locative: Indicating place, or the place where, or wherein; as, alocative adjective; locative case of a noun.-- n.
loch: A lake; a bay or arm of the sea. [Scot.]
lockout: The closing of a factory or workshop by an employer, usually inorder to bring the workmen to satisfactory terms by a suspension ofwages.
locky: Having locks or tufts. [R.] Sherwood.
locomotive: A locomotive engine; a self-propelling wheel carriage,especially one which bears a steam boiler and one or more steamengines which communicate motion to the wheels and thus propel thecarriage, -- used to convey goods or passengers, or to draw wagons,railroad cars, etc. See Illustration in Appendix. Consolidationlocomotive, a locomotive having four pairs of connected drivers.-- Locomotive car, a locomotive and a car combined in one vehicle; adummy engine. [U.S.] -- Locomotive engine. Same as Locomotive, above.-- Mogul locomotive. See Mogul.
loculament: The cell of a pericarp in which the seed is lodged.
locustella: The European cricket warbler.
lodger: One who, or that which, lodges; one who occupies a hired roomin another's house.
loggat: An old game in England, played by throwing pieces of wood at astake set in the ground. [Obs.] Shak.
logger: One engaged in logging. See Log, v. i. [U.S.] Lowell.
logometric: Serving to measure or ascertain chemical equivalents;stoichiometric. [R.]
logwood: The heartwood of a tree (Hæmatoxylon Campechianum), a native ofSouth America, It is a red, heavy wood, containing a crystallinesubstance called hæmatoxylin, and is used largely in dyeing. Anextract from this wood is used in medicine as an astringent. Alsocalled Campeachy wood, and bloodwood.
logy: Heavy or dull in respect to motion or thought; as, a logyhorse. [U.S.]Porcupines are . . . logy, sluggish creatures. C. H. Merriam.
longbow: The ordinary bow, not mounted on a stock; -- so called indistinction from the crossbow when both were used as weapons of war.Also, sometimes, such a bow of about the height of a man, asdistinguished from a much shorter one. To draw the longbow, to telllarge stories.
longing: An eager desire; a craving; a morbid appetite; an earnest wish;an aspiration.Put on my crown; I have immortal longings in me. Shak.
longingly: With longing. Dryden.
longipennine: Of or pertaining to the Longipennes; longipennate.
longwise: Lengthwise.
loobily: Loobylike; awkward. Fuller.
loony: See Luny.
looter: A plunderer.
lopeman: Leaper; ropedancer. [Obs.]
lophiomys: A very singular rodent (Lophiomys Imhausi) of NortheasternAfrica. It is the only known representative of a special family(Lophiomyidæ), remarkable for the structure of the skull. It hashandlike feet, and the hair is peculiar in structure and arrangement.
lophobranchiate: Of or pertaining to the Lophobranchii.
lopper: One who lops or cuts off.
loppy: Somewhat lop; inclined to lop.
loquat: The fruit of the Japanese medlar (Photinia Japonica). It is aslarge as a small plum, but grows in clusters, and contains four orfive large seeds. Also, the tree itself.
loral: Of or pertaining to the lores.
lordly: In a lordly manner.
loring: Instructive discourse. [Obs.] Spenser.
loss: Killed, wounded, and captured persons, or captured property.
lotophagi: A people visited by Ulysses in his wanderings. They subsistedon the lotus. See Lotus (b), and Lotus-eater.
lotto: A game of chance, played with cards, on which are inscribednumbers, and any contrivance (as a wheel containing numbered balls)for determining a set of numbers by chance. The player holding a cardhaving on it the set of numbers drawn from the wheel takes the stakesafter a certain percentage of them has been deducted for the dealer.A variety of lotto is called keno. [Often written loto.]
lousily: In a lousy manner; in a mean, paltry manner; scurvily. [Vulgar]
lovable: Having qualities that excite, or are fitted to excite, love;worthy of love.Elaine the fair, Elaine the lovable, Elaine, the lily maid ofAstolat. Tennyson.
loveable: See Lovable.
lovelily: In manner to excite love; amiably. [R.] Otway.
lovesome: Lovely. [Obs.]
loxodromy: The science of loxodromics. [R.]
loyally: In a loyal manner; faithfully.
luciferously: In a luciferous manner.
lump: A projection beneath the breech end of a gun barrel. In thelump, In a lump, the whole together; in gross.They may buy them in the lump. Addison.-- Lump coal, coal in large lumps; -- the largest size brought fromthe mine.-- Lump sum, a gross sum without a specification of items; as, toaward a lump sum in satisfaction of all claims and damages.
lumpish: Like a lump; inert; gross; heavy; dull; spiritless. " Lumpish,heavy, melancholy." Shak.-- Lump"ish*ly, adv.-- Lump"ish*ness, n.
lumpsucker: The lumprish.
lunarian: An inhabitant of the moon.
lung: An organ for aërial respiration; -- commonly in the plural.My lungs began to crow like chanticleer. Shak.
lungworm: Any one of several species of parasitic nematoid worms whichinfest the lungs and air passages of cattle, sheep, and otheranimals, often proving fatal. The lungworm of cattle (Strongylusmicrurus) and that of sheep (S. filaria) are the best known.
lunisolar: Resulting from the united action, or pertaining to the mutualrelations, of the sun and moon. Lunisolar precession (Astron.), thatportion of the annual precession of the equinoxes which depends onthe joint action of the sun and moon.-- Lunisolar year, a period of time, at the end of which, in theJulian calendar, the new and full moons and the eclipses recur on thesame days of the week and month and year as in the previous period.It consists of 532 common years, being the least common multiple ofthe numbers of years in the cycle of the sun and the cycle of themoon.
lunula: Same as Lunule.
luny: Crazy; mentally unsound. [Written also loony.] [Law, U.S.]
lurchline: The line by which a fowling net was pulled over so as toinclose the birds.
lurdan: Stupid; blockish. [Obs.]
luster: One who lusts.
lustration: A sacrifice, or ceremony, by which cities, fields, armies, orpeople, defiled by crimes, pestilence, or other cause of uncleanness,were purified.
lustrical: Pertaining to, or used for, purification.
lustring: A kind of glossy silk fabric. See Lutestring.
lutist: One who plays on a lute.
luxuriant: Exuberant in growth; rank; excessive; very abundant; as, aluxuriant growth of grass; luxuriant foliage.Prune the luxuriant, the uncouth refine. Pope.Luxuriant flower (Bot.), one in which the floral envelopes areoverdeveloped at the expense of the essential organs.
lyche: Like. [Obs.] Chaucer.
lycoperdon: A genus of fungi, remarkable for the great quantity of spores,forming a fine dust, which is thrown out like smoke when the plant iscompressed or burst; puffball.
lydian: Of or pertaining to Lydia, a country of Asia Minor, or to itsinhabitants; hence, soft; effeminate; -- said especially of one ofthe ancient Greek modes or keys, the music in which was of a soft,pathetic, or voluptuous character.Softly sweet in Lydian measures, Soon he soothed his soul topleasures. Dryden.Lydian stone, a flint slate used by the ancients to try gold andsilver; a touchstone. See Basanite.
lyingly: In a lying manner; falsely.
lymphadenoma: See Lymphoma.
lynch: To inflict punishment upon, especially death, without the formsof law, as when a mob captures and hangs a suspected person. SeeLynch law.
lyopomata: An order of brachiopods, in which the valves of shell are notarticulated by a hinge. It includes the Lingula, Discina, and alliedforms. [Written also Lyopoma.]
lyrid: One of the group of shooting stars which come into the air incertain years on or about the 19th of April; -- so called because theapparent path among the stars the stars if produced back wardscrosses the constellation Lyra.
maasha: An East Indian coin, of about one tenth of the weight of arupee.
mabby: A spirituous liquor or drink distilled from potatoes; -- usedin the Barbadoes.
macacus: A genus of monkeys, found in Asia and the East Indies. Theyhave short tails and prominent eyebrows.
macadamization: The process or act of macadamizing.
macavahu: A small Brazilian monkey (Callithrix torquatus), -- called alsocollared teetee.
mackerel: A pimp; also, a bawd. [Obs.] Halliwell.
macrocosm: The great world; that part of the universe which is exterior toman; -- contrasted with microcosm, or man. See Microcosm.
macrocystis: An immensely long blackish seaweed of the Pacific (Macrocystispyrifera), having numerous almond-shaped air vessels.
macropyramid: See Macroprism.
madden: To make mad; to drive to madness; to craze; to excite violentlywith passion; to make very angry; to enrage.
madegassy: See Madecassee.
madid: Wet; moist; as, a madid eye. [R.] Beaconsfield.
madjoun: An intoxicating confection from the hemp plant; -- used by theTurks and Hindoos. [Written also majoun.]
madreporaria: An extensive division of Anthozoa, including most of thespecies that produce stony corals. See Illust. of Anthozoa.-- Mad`re*po*ra"ri*an, a. & n.
madreporiform: Resembling a madreporian coral in form or structure.
madreporite: A fossil coral.
maestoso: Majestic or majestically; -- a direction to perform a passageor piece of music in a dignified manner.
magazine: To store in, or as in, a magazine; to store up for use.
magistrality: Magisterialness; arbitrary dogmatism. Bacon.
magnality: A great act or event; a great attainment. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
magnesium: A light silver-white metallic element, malleable and ductile,quite permanent in dry air but tarnishing in moist air. It burns,forming (the oxide) magnesia, with the production of a blinding light(the so-called magnesium light) which is used in signaling, inpyrotechny, or in photography where a strong actinic illuminant isrequired. Its compounds occur abundantly, as in dolomite, talc,meerschaum, etc. Symbol Mg. Atomic weight, 24.4. Specific gravity,1.75. Magnesium sulphate. (Chem.) Same as Epsom salts.
magnetite: An oxide of iron (Fe3O4) occurring in isometric crystals, alsomassive, of a black color and metallic luster. It is readilyattracted by a magnet and sometimes possesses polarity, being thencalled loadstone. It is an important iron ore. Called also magneticiron.
magnetizee: A person subjected to the influence of animal magnetism. [R.]
magnetomotor: A voltaic series of two or more large plates, producing a greatquantity of electricity of low tension, and hence adapted to theexhibition of electro-magnetic phenomena. [R.]
magniloquent: Speaking pompously; using swelling discourse; bombastic; tumidin style; grandiloquent.-- Mag*nil"o*quent*ly, adv.
mahogany: A large tree of the genus Swietenia (S. Mahogoni), found intropical America.
mahound: A contemptuous name for Mohammed; hence, an evil spirit; adevil. [Obs.]Who's this, my mahound cousin Beau. & Fl.
mahout: The keeper and driver of an elephant. [East Indies]
maidpale: Pale, like a sick girl. Shak.
maine: One of the New England States. Maine law, any law prohibitingthe manufacture and sale of intoxicating beverages, esp. oneresembling that enacted in the State of Maine.
mainspring: The principal or most important spring in a piece of mechanism,especially the moving spring of a watch or clock or the spring in agunlock which impels the hammer. Hence
mainswear: To swear falsely. [Obs.] Blount.
majesticness: The quality or state of being majestic. Oldenburg.
majolica: A kind of pottery, with opaque glazing and showy, which reachedits greatest perfection in Italy in the 16th century.
majorate: The office or rank of a major.
majoration: Increase; enlargement. [Obs.] Bacon.
malacatune: See Melocoton.
malaise: An indefinite feeling of uneasiness, or of being sick or ill atease.
malapterurus: A genus of African siluroid fishes, including the electriccatfishes. See Electric cat, under Electric.
malaria: A morbid condition produced by exhalations from decayingvegetable matter in contact with moisture, giving rise to fever andague and many other symptoms characterized by their tendency to recurat definite and usually uniform intervals.
malaxation: The act of softening by mixing with a thinner substance; theformation of ingredients into a mass for pills or plasters. [R.]
malayalam: The name given to one the cultivated Dravidian languages,closely related to the Tamil. Yule.
malefic: Doing mischief; causing harm or evil; nefarious; hurtful. [R.]Chaucer.
maletreat: See Maltreat.
maleyl: A hypothetical radical derived from maleic acid.
malignly: In a malign manner; with malignity.
malinger: To act the part of a malingerer; to feign illness or inability.
malkin: A mop or sponge attached to a jointed staff for swabbing out acannon.
malleability: The quality or state of being malleable; -- opposed tofriability and brittleness. Locke.
malleal: Pertaining to the malleus.
malleate: To hammer; to beat into a plate or leaf.
malleation: The act or process of beating into a plate, sheet, or leaf, asa metal; extension by beating.
malma: A spotted trout (Salvelinus malma), inhabiting NorthernAmerica, west of the Rocky Mountains; -- called also Dolly Vardentrout, bull trout, red-spotted trout, and golet.
malmsey: A kind of sweet wine from Crete, the Canary Islands, etc. Shak.
maltworm: A tippler. [R.] Shak.
malty: Consisting, or like, malt. Dickens.
mama: See Mamma.
mammee: A fruit tree of tropical America, belonging to the genus Mammea(M. Americana); also, its fruit. The latter is large, covered with athick, tough ring, and contains a bright yellow pulp of a pleasanttaste and fragrant scent. It is often called mammee apple.
mammonish: Actuated or prompted by a devotion to money getting or theservice of Mammon. Carlyle.
manducation: The act of chewing. [R.] Jer. Taylor.
maneless: Having no mane. Maneless lion (Zoöl.), a variety of the lionhaving a short, inconspicuous mane. It inhabits Arabia and adjacentcountries.
manganic: Of, pertaining to resembling, or containing, manganese;specif., designating compounds in which manganese has a highervalence as contrasted with manganous compounds. Cf. Manganous.Manganic acid, an acid, H2MnO4, formed from manganese, analogous tosulphuric acid.
manganous: Of, pertaining to, designating, those compounds of manganese inwhich the element has a lower valence as contrasted with manganiccompounds; as, manganous oxide. Manganous acid, a hypotheticalcompound analogous to sulphurous acid, and forming the so-calledmanganites.
mangcorn: A mixture of wheat and rye, or other species of grain. [ProvEng.]
maniac: Raving with madness; raging with disordered intellect; affectedwith mania; mad.
manic: Of or pert. to, or characterized by, mania, or excitement.
manifolded: Having many folds, layers, or plates; as, a manifolded shield.[Obs.]
manilio: See Manilla, 1. Sir T. Herbert.
manks: Of or pertaining to the language or people of the of Man.-- n.
mannerly: Showing good manners; civil; respectful; complaisant.What thou thinkest meet, and is most mannerly. Shak.
manrope: One of the side ropes to the gangway of a ship. Totten.
manservant: A male servant.
manswear: To swear falsely. Same as Mainswear.
mantis: Any one of numerous species of voracious orthopterous insectsof the genus Mantis, and allied genera. They are remarkable for theirslender grotesque forms, and for holding their stout anterior legs ina manner suggesting hands folded in prayer. The common Americanspecies is M. Carolina. Mantis shrimp. (Zoöl.) See Sguilla.
manto: See Manteau. [Obs.] Bailey.
mantuan: Of or pertaining to Mantua.-- n.
manuducent: One who leads by the hand; a manuductor. [Obs.]
manuductor: A conductor; an officer in the ancient church who gave thesignal for the choir to sing, and who beat time with the hand, andregulated the music. Moore (Encyc. of Music.)
manumit: To release from slavery; to liberate from personal bondage orservitude; to free, as a slave. "Manumitted slaves." Hume.
manway: A small passageway, as in a mine, that a man may pass through.Raymond.
manzanilla: A kind of small roundish olive with a small freestone pit, afine skin, and a peculiar bitterish flavor. Manzanillas are commonlypitted and stuffed with Spanish pimientos.
manzanita: A name given to several species of Arctostaphylos, but mostlyto A. glauca and A. pungens, shrubs of California, Oregon, etc., withreddish smooth bark, ovate or oval coriaceous evergreen leaves, andbearing clusters of red berries, which are said to be a favorite foodof the grizzly bear.
maracan: A macaw.
marchman: A person living in the marches between England and Scotland orWales.
marconigram: A Marconi wireless message.
margent: A margin; border; brink; edge. [Obs.]The beached margent of the sea. Shak.
marinorama: A representation of a sea view.
marrowfat: A rich but late variety of pea.
marrowless: Destitute of marrow.
marry: To enter into the conjugal or connubial state; to take ahusband or a wife.I will, therefore, that the younger women marry. 1 Tim. v. 14.Marrrying man, a man disposed to marry. [Colloq.]
marsh: A tract of soft wet land, commonly covered partially or whollywith water; a fen; a swamp; a morass. [Written also marish.] Marshasphodel (Bot.), a plant (Nartheeium ossifragum) with linear equitantleaves, and a raceme of small white flowers; -- called also bogasphodel.-- Marsh cinquefoil (Bot.), a plant (Potentilla palustris) havingpurple flowers, and found growing in marshy places; marsh five-finger.-- Marsh elder. (Bot.) (a) The guelder-rose or cranberry tree(Viburnum Opulus). (b) In the United States, a composite shrubgrowing in salt marshes (Iva frutescens).-- Marsh five-finger. (Bot.) See Marsh cinquefoil (above).-- Marsh gas. (Chem.) See under Gas.-- Marsh grass (Bot.), a genus (Spartina) of coarse grasses growingin marshes; -- called also cord grass. The tall S. cynosuroides isnot good for hay unless cut very young. The low S. juncea is a commoncomponent of salt hay.-- Marsh harrier (Zoöl.), a European hawk or harrier (Circusæruginosus); -- called also marsh hawk, moor hawk, moor buzzard,puttock.-- Marsh hawk. (Zoöl.) (a) A hawk or harrier (Circus cyaneus),native of both America and Europe. The adults are bluish slate above,with a white rump. Called also hen harrier, and mouse hawk. (b) Themarsh harrier.-- Marsh hen (Zoöl.), a rail; esp., Rallus elegans of fresh-watermarshes, and R. longirostris of salt-water marshes.-- Marsh mallow (Bot.), a plant of the genus Althæa ( A.officinalis) common in marshes near the seashore, and whose root ismuch used in medicine as a demulcent.-- Marsh marigold. (Bot.) See in the Vocabulary.-- Marsh pennywort (Bot.), any plant of the umbelliferous genusHydrocotyle; low herbs with roundish leaves, growing in wet places; -- called also water pennywort.-- Marsh quail (Zoöl.), the meadow lark.-- Marsh rosemary (Bot.), a plant of the genus Statice (S.Limonium), common in salt marshes. Its root is powerfully astringent,and is sometimes used in medicine. Called also sea lavender.-- Marsh samphire (Bot.), a plant (Salicornia herbacea) found alongseacoasts. See Glasswort.-- Marsh St. John's-wort (Bot.), an American herb (Elodes Virginica)with small opposite leaves and flesh-colored flowers.-- Marsh tea. (Bot.). Same as Labrador tea.-- Marsh trefoil. (Bot.) Same as Buckbean.-- Marsh wren (Zoöl.), any species of small American wrens of thegenus Cistothorus, and allied genera. They chiefly inhabit saltmarshes.
marsipobranch: One of the Marsipobranchia.
marsupite: A fossil crinoid of the genus Marsupites, resembling a purse inform.
marysole: A large British fluke, or flounder (Rhombus megastoma); --called also carter, and whiff. marchpane.
masker: One who wears a mask; one who appears in disguise at amasquerade.
mate: The Paraguay tea, being the dried leaf of the Brazilian holly(Ilex Paraguensis). The infusion has a pleasant odor, with anagreeable bitter taste, and is much used for tea in South America.
mateless: Having no mate.
matfelon: The knapweed (Centaurea nigra).
mathematics: That science, or class of sciences, which treats of the exactrelations existing between quantities or magnitudes, and of themethods by which, in accordance with these relations, quantitiessought are deducible from other quantities known or supposed; thescience of spatial and quantitative relations.
mathurin: See Trinitarian.
matico: A Peruvian plant (Piper, or Artanthe, elongatum), allied to thepepper, the leaves of which are used as a styptic and astringent.
matriarchate: The office or jurisdiction of a matriarch; a matriarchal formof government.
matrix: The womb.All that openeth the matrix is mine. Ex. xxxiv. 19.
mattoid: A person of congenitally abnormal mind bordering on insanity ordegeneracy.
maugre: To defy. [Obs.] J. Webster.
mawks: A slattern; a mawk. [Prov. Eng.]
mawseed: The seed of the opium poppy.
maxilloturbinal: Pertaining to the maxillary and turbinal regions of the skull.-- n.
mazy: Perplexed with turns and windings; winding; intricate;confusing; perplexing; embarrassing; as, mazy error. Milton.To range amid the mazy thicket. Spenser.To run the ring, and trace the mazy round. Dryden.
measelry: Leprosy. [Obs.] R. of Brunne.
measled: Infected or spotted with measles, as pork.-- Mea"sled*ness, n.
measly: Containing larval tapeworms; -- said of pork and beef.
meazel: See 1st Measle. [Obs.]
mechanicalize: To cause to become mechanical.
mechanically: In a mechanical manner.
meckelian: Pertaining to, or discovered by, J. F. Meckel, a Germananatomist. Meckelian cartilage, the cartilaginous rod which forms theaxis of the mandible; -- called also Meckel's cartilage.
meconic: Pertaining to, or obtained from, the poppy or opium; specif.(Chem.), designating an acid related to aconitic acid, found in opiumand extracted as a white crystalline substance.
meddler: One who meddles; one who interferes or busies himself withthings in which he has no concern; an officious person; a busybody.
mediator: One who mediates; especially, one who interposes betweenparties at variance for the purpose of reconciling them; hence, anintercessor.For there is one God, and one mediator between God and men, the manChrist Jesus. 1 Tim. ii. 5.
mediatorial: Of or pertaining to a mediator, or to mediation; mediatory; as,a mediatorial office.-- Me`di*a*to"ri*al*ly, adv.My measures were . . . healing and mediatorial. Burke.
medic: A leguminous plant of the genus Medicago. The black medic isthe Medicago lupulina; the purple medic, or lucern, is M. sativa.
medicable: Capable of being medicated; admitting of being cured or healed.
medicament: Anything used for healing diseases or wounds; a medicine; ahealing application.
medicean: Of or relating to the Medici, a noted Italian family; as, theMedicean Venus. Medicean planets (Astron.), a name given by Galileoto the satellites of Jupiter.
medicinally: In a medicinal manner.
medicornu: The middle or inferior horn of each lateral ventricle of thebrain. B. G. Wilder.
medics: Science of medicine. [Obs.]
meditatist: One who is given to meditation.
medle: To mix; to mingle; to meddle. [Written also medly.] [Obs.]Chaucer.
meerschaum: A fine white claylike mineral, soft, and light enough when indry masses to float in water. It is a hydrous silicate of magnesia,and is obtained chiefly in Asia Minor. It is manufacturd into tobaccopipes, cigar holders, etc. Also called sepiolite.
meeth: , Mead. See Meathe. [Obs.] Chaucer.
megapolis: A metropolis. [Obs.] Sir T. Herbert.
megaseme: Having the orbital index relatively large; having the orbitsnarrow transversely; -- opposed to microseme.
megrim: A sudden vertigo in a horse, succeeded sometimes byunconsciousness, produced by an excess of blood in the brain; a mildform of apoplexy. Youatt.
melancholian: A person affected with melancholy; a melancholic. [Obs.] Dr. J.Scott.
melanochroi: A group of the human race, including the dark whites.
melanosperm: An alga of any kind that produces blackish spores, or seeddust. The melanosperms include the rockweeds and all kinds of kelp.-- Mel`a*no*sper"mous, a.
melanuric: Pertaining to, or designating, a complex nitrogenous acidobtained by decomposition of melam, or of urea, as a whitecrystalline powder; -- called also melanurenic acid.
meliorism: The doctrine that there is a tendency throughout nature towardimprovement. J. Sully.
melissic: Pertaining to, or derived from, beeswax; specif., denoting anacid obtained by oxidation of myricin.
mellitate: A salt of mellitic acid.
melodious: Containing, or producing, melody; musical; agreeable to the earby a sweet succession of sounds; as, a melodious voice. "A melodiousvoice." "A melodious undertone." Longfellow.-- Me*lo"di*ous*ly, adv.-- Me*lo"di*ous*ness, n.
melodize: To make melodious; to form into, or set to, melody.
melopoeia: The art of forming melody; melody; -- now often used for amelodic passage, rather than a complete melody.
melpomene: The Muse of tragedy.
melton: A kind of stout woolen cloth with unfinished face and withoutraised nap. A commoner variety has a cotton warp.
membrane: A thin layer or fold of tissue, usually supported by a fibrousnetwork, serving to cover or line some part or organ, and oftensecreting or absorbing certain fluids.
memoriter: By, or from, memory.
memphian: Of or pertaining to the ancient city of Memphis in Egypt;hence, Egyptian; as, Memphian darkness.
menace: The show of an intention to inflict evil; a threat orthreatening; indication of a probable evil or catastrophe to come.His (the pope's) commands, his rebukes, his menaces. Milman.The dark menace of the distant war. Dryden.
mendelian: Pert. to Mendel, or to Mendel's law. -- Men*de"li*an*ism (#),Men*del"ism (#), n.
menhaden: An American marine fish of the Herring familt (Brevoortiatyrannus), chiefly valuable for its oil and as a component offertilizers; -- called also mossbunker, bony fish, chebog, pogy,hardhead, whitefish, etc.
menispermaceous: Pertaining to a natural order (Menispermaceæ) of climbingplants of which moonseed (Menispermum) is the type.
menostation: Same as Menostasis.
menow: A minnow.
mention: A speaking or notice of anything, -- usually in a brief orcursory manner. Used especially in the phrase to make mention of.I will make mention of thy righteousness. Ps. lxxi. 16.And sleep in dull, cold marble, where no mention Of me more must beheard of. Shak.
mentor: A wise and faithful counselor or monitor.
mercantile: Of or pertaining to merchants, or the business of merchants;having to do with trade, or the buying and selling of commodities;commercial.The expedition of the Argonauts was partly mercantile, partlymilitary. Arbuthnot.Mercantile agency, an agency for procuring information of thestanding and credit of merchants in different parts of the country,for the use of dealers who sell to them.-- Mercantile marine, the persons and vessels employed in commerce,taken collectively.-- Mercantile paper, the notes or acceptances given by merchants forgoods bought, or received on consignment; drafts on merchants forgoods sold or consigned. McElrath.
mercature: Commerce; traffic; trade. [Obs.]
mercenary: One who is hired; a hireling; especially, a soldier hired intoforeign service. Milman.
merchand: To traffic. [Obs.] Bacon.
merchantly: Merchantlike; suitable to the character or business of amerchant. [Obs.] Gauden.
mercurialist: A physician who uses much mercury, in any of its forms, in hispractice.
mercurialize: To affect with mercury.
mercuric: Of, pertaining to, or derived from, mercury; containingmercury; -- said of those compounds of mercury into which thiselement enters in its lowest proportion. Mercuric chloride, corrosivesublimate. See Corrosive.
merestone: A stone designating a limit or boundary; a landmark. Bacon.
meritory: Meritorious. [Obs.]
meros: The plain surface between the channels of a triglyph. [Writtenalso merus.] Weale.
merrily: In a merry manner; with mirth; with gayety and laughter;jovially. See Mirth, and Merry.Merrily sing, and sport, and play. Granville.
mesa: A high tableland; a plateau on a hill. [Southwestern U.S.]Bartlett.
mesally: Same as Mesially.
mesitylene: A colorless, fragrant liquid, C6H3(CH3)3, of the benzene seriesof hydrocarbons, obtained by distilling acetone with sulphuric acid.-- Me*sit`y*len"ic, a.
mesmerization: The act of mesmerizing; the state of being mesmerized.
mesne: Middle; intervening; as, a mesne lord, that is, a lord whoholds land of a superior, but grants a part of it to another person,in which case he is a tenant to the superior, but lord or superior tothe second grantee, and hence is called the mesne lord. Mesneprocess, intermediate process; process intervening between thebeginning and end of a suit, sometimes understood to be the wholeprocess preceding the execution. Blackstone. Burrill.-- Mesne profits, profits of premises during the time the owner hasbeen wrongfully kept out of the possession of his estate. Burrill.
mesoarium: The fold of peritoneum which suspends the ovary from the dorsalwall of the body cavity.
mesodermal: Pertaining to, or derived from, the mesoderm; as, mesodermaltissues.
mesopterygium: The middle one of the three principal basal cartilages in thefins of fishes.-- Me*sop`ter*yg"i*al, a.
mesoscapula: A process from the middle of the scapula in some animals; thespine of the scapula.
mesothorium: A radioactive product intermediate between thorium andradiothorium, with a period of 5.5 years.
mesymnicum: A repetition at the end of a stanza.
met: of Meet.
metabolian: An insect which undergoes a metamorphosis.
metacarpus: That part of the skeleton of the hand or forefoot between thecarpus and phalanges. In man it consists of five bones. See Illust.of Artiodactyla.
metacetone: A colorless liquid of an agreeable odor, C6H10O, obtained bydistilling a mixture of sugar and lime; -- so called because formerlyregarded as a polymeric modification of acetone.
metachrosis: The power og changing color at will by the expansion of specialpigment cells, under nerve influence, as seen in many reptiles,fishes, etc. Cope.
metagenesis: The change of form which one animal species undergoes in aseries of successively produced individuals, extending from the onedeveloped from the ovum to the final perfected individual. Hence,metagenesis involves the production of sexual individuals bynonsexual means, either directly or through intervening sexlessgenerations. Opposed to monogenesis. See Alternate generation, underGeneration.
metagenetic: Of or pertaining to metagenesis.
metallization: The act or process of metallizing. [R.]
metalloidal: Metalloid.
metallurgist: One who works in metals, or prepares them for use; one who isskilled in metallurgy.
metamorphic: Pertaining to, produced by, or exhibiting, certain changeswhich minerals or rocks may have undergone since their originaldeposition; -- especially applied to the recrystallization whichsedimentary rocks have undergone through the influence of heat andpressure, after which they are called metamorphic rocks.
metamorphize: To metamorphose.
metanephritic: Of or pertaining to the metanephros.
metantimonate: A salt of metantimonic acid.
metasilicate: A salt of metasilicic acid.
metasomatism: An alteration in a mineral or rock mass when involving achemical change of the substance, as of chrysolite to serpentine; --opposed to ordinary metamorphism, as implying simply arecrystallization.-- Met`a*so*mat"ic, a.
metasome: One of the component segments of the body of an animal.
metastannate: A salt of metastannic acid.
metatungstate: A salt of metatungstic acid.
metecorn: A quantity of corn formerly given by the lord to his customarytenants, as an encouragement to, or reward for, labor and faithfulservice.
meteorographic: Of or pertaining to meteorography.
methanometer: An instrument, resembling a eudiometer, to detect the presenceand amount of methane, as in coal mines.
methenyl: The hypothetical hydrocarbon radical CH, regarded as anessential residue of certain organic compounds.
methionate: A salt of methionic acid.
methyl: A hydrocarbon radical, CH3, not existing alone but regarded asan essential residue of methane, and appearing as a component part ofmany derivatives; as, methyl alcohol, methyl ether, methyl amine,etc. [Formerly written also methule, methyle, etc.] Methyl alcohol(Chem.), a light, volatile, inflammable liquid, CH3.OH, obtained bythe distillation of wood, and hence called wood spirit; -- calledalso methol, carbinol, etc.-- Methyl amine (Chem.), a colorless, inflammable, alkaline gas,CH3.NH2, having an ammoniacal, fishy odor. It is producedartificially, and also occurs naturally in herring brine and otherfishy products. It is regarded as ammonia in which a third of itshydrogen is replaced by methyl, and is a type of the class ofsubstituted ammonias.-- Methyl ether (Chem.), a light, volatile ether CH3.O.CH3, obtainedby the etherification of methyl alcohol; -- called also methyl oxide.-- Methyl green. (Chem.) See under Green, n.-- Methyl orange. (Chem.) See Helianthin.-- Methyl violet (Chem.), an artificial dye, consisting of certainmethyl halogen derivatives of rosaniline.
methylamine: See Methyl amine, under Methyl.
metoposcopy: The study of physiognomy; the art of discovering the characterof persons by their features, or the lines of the face.
metrotome: An instrument for cutting or scarifying the uterus or the neckof the uterus.
mewler: One that mewls.
meyne: Same as Meine.
mhometer: An instrument for measuring conductivity.
miasma: Infectious particles or germs floating in the air; air madenoxious by the presence of such particles or germs; noxious effluvia;malaria.
miasmatist: One who has made a special study of miasma.
micaceous: Pertaining to, or containing, mica; splitting into laminæ orleaves like mica.
microampere: One of the smaller measures of electrical currents; themillionth part of one ampère.
microbicide: Any agent detrimental to, or destructive of, the life ofmicrobes or bacterial organisms.
microcosmography: Description of man as a microcosm.
microfarad: The millionth part of a farad.
microform: A microscopic form of life; an animal or vegetable organismmicroscopic size.
micrographic: Of or pertaining to micrography.
microseme: Having the orbital index relatively small; having the orbitsbroad transversely; -- opposed to Ant
microsthenic: Having a typically small size; of or pertaining to themicrosthenes.
micturition: The act of voiding urine; also, a morbidly frequent passing ofthe urine, in consequence of disease.
midas: A genus of longeared South American monkeys, including numerousspecies of marmosets. See Marmoset.
middler: One of a middle or intermediate class in some schools andseminaries.
middy: A colloquial abbreviation of midshipman.
midway: The middle of the way or distance; a middle way or course.Shak.Paths indirect, or in the midway faint. Milton.
midweek: The middle of the week. Also used adjectively.
mighty: A warrior of great force and courage. [R. & Obs.] 1 Chron. xi.12.
mikmaks: Same as Micmacs.
milfoil: A common composite herb (Achillea Millefolium) with whiteflowers and finely dissected leaves; yarrow. Water milfoil (Bot.), anaquatic herb with dissected leaves (Myriophyllum).
miliaria: A fever accompanied by an eruption of small, isolated, redpimples, resembling a millet seed in form or size; miliary fever.
miliolitic: Of or pertaining to the genus Miliola; containing miliolites.
militant: Engaged in warfare; fighting; combating; serving as a soldier.-- Mil"i*tant*ly, adv.At which command the powers militant... Moved on in silence. Milton.Church militant, the Christian church on earth, which is supposed tobe engaged in a constant warfare against its enemies, and is thusdistinguished from the church triumphant, in heaven.
milkiness: State or quality of being milky.
milliampere: The thousandth part of one ampère.
milliary: Of or pertaining to a mile, or to distance by miles; denoting amile or miles.A milliary column, from which they used to compute the distance ofall the cities and places of note. Evelyn.
millier: A weight of the metric system, being one million grams; ametric ton.
millionairess: A woman who is a millionaire, or the wife of a millionaire.[Humorous] Holmes.
millwright: A mechanic whose occupation is to build mills, or to set uptheir machinery.
miltonic: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, Milton, or his writings; as,Miltonic prose.
mina: An ancient weight or denomination of money, of varying value.The Attic mina was valued at a hundred drachmas.
mincer: One who minces.
minette: The smallest of regular sizes of portrait photographs.
mingle: To become mixed or blended.
ministral: Ministerial. [Obs.] Johnson.
ministrant: Performing service as a minister; attendant on service; actingunder command; subordinate. "Princedoms and dominations ministrant."Milton.-- n.
minivet: A singing bird of India of the family Campephagidæ.
minor: Less by a semitone in interval or difference of pitch; as, aminor third. Asia Minor (Geog.), the Lesser Asia; that part of Asiawhich lies between the Euxine, or Black Sea, on the north, and theMediterranean on the south.-- Minor mode (Mus.), that mode, or scale, in which the third andsixth are minor, -- much used for mournful and solemn subjects.-- Minor orders (Eccl.), the rank of persons employed inecclesiastical offices who are not in holy orders, as doorkeepers,acolytes, etc.-- Minor scale (Mus.) The form of the minor scale is various. Thestrictly correct form has the third and sixth minor, with a semitonebetween the seventh and eighth, which involves an augmented secondinterval, or three semitones, between the sixth and seventh, as, 6/F,7/G#, 8/A. But, for melodic purposes, both the sixth and the seventhare sometimes made major in the ascending, and minor in thedescending, scale, thus
minutary: Pertaining to, or consisting of, minutes. [Obs.] Fuller.
miny: Abounding with mines; like a mine. "Miny caverns." Thomson.
miracle: To make wonderful. [Obs.] Shak.
miraculize: To cause to seem to be a miracle. [R.] Shaftesbury.
mirificent: Wonderful. [Obs.]
miriness: The quality of being miry.
miry: Abounding with deep mud; full of mire; muddy; as, a miry road.
mirza: The common title of honor in Persia, prefixed to the surname ofan individual. When appended to the surname, it signifies Prince.
misaffection: An evil or wrong affection; the state of being ill affected.[Obs.] Bp. Hall.
misapply: To apply wrongly; to use for a wrong purpose; as, to misapply aname or title; to misapply public money.
misbecoming: Unbecoming. Milton.-- Mis`be*com"ing*ly, adv.-- Mis`be*com"ing*ness, n. Boyle.
miscarriageable: Capable of miscarrying; liable to fail. [R.] Bp. Hall.
miscellanarian: Of or pertaining to miscellanies. Shaftesbury.-- n.
mischief: To do harm to. [Obs.] Milton.
mischiefable: Mischievous. [R.] Lydgate.
misconfident: Having a mistaken confidence; wrongly trusting. [R.] Bp. Hall.
misconstruer: One who misconstrues.
miscontent: Discontent. [Obs.]
miscorrect: To fail or err in attempting to correct. "Scaliger miscorrectshis author." Dryden.
miscue: A false stroke with a billiard cue, the cue slipping from theball struck without impelling it as desired.
misdempt: of Misdeem. Spenser.
misdepart: To distribute wrongly. [Obs.]He misdeparteth riches temporal. Chaucer.
misdisposition: Erroneous disposal or application. Bp. Hall.
misdistinguish: To make wrong distinctions in or concerning. Hooker.
misdoubt: To be suspicious of; to have suspicion. [Obs.]I do not misdoubt my wife. Shak.
miseased: Having discomfort or misery; troubled. [Obs.] Chaucer.
miseducate: To educate in a wrong manner.
misericordia: An amercement. Burrill.
misestimate: To estimate erroneously. J. S. Mill.
misfortunate: Producing misfortune. [Obs.]
misgie: See Misgye. [Obs.]
misgotten: Unjustly gotten. Spenser.
misgracious: Not gracious. [Obs.]
misguide: To guide wrongly; to lead astray; as, to misguide theunderstanding.
mishear: To hear incorrectly.
misimprove: To use for a bad purpose; to abuse; to misuse; as, tomisimprove time, talents, advantages, etc. South.
misinformation: Untrue or incorrect information. Bacon.
misintend: To aim amiss. [Obs.]
misken: Not to know. [Obs.]
miskin: A little bagpipe. [Obs.] Drayton.
mislead: To lead into a wrong way or path; to lead astray; to guide intoerror; to cause to mistake; to deceive.Trust not servants who mislead or misinform you. Bacon.To give due light To the mislead and lonely traveler. Milton.
misled: of Mislead.
misobserve: To observe inaccurately; to mistake in observing. Locke.
misogynous: Hating women.
misotheism: Hatred of God. De Quincey.
mispickel: Arsenical iron pyrites; arsenopyrite.
misplace: To put in a wrong place; to set or place on an improper orunworthy object; as, he misplaced his confidence.
misprofess: To make a false profession; to make pretensions to skill whichis not possessed.
mispunctuate: To punctuate wrongly or incorrectly.
misraise: To raise or exite unreasonable. "Misraised fury." Bp. Hall.
misrecital: An inaccurate recital.
misregulate: To regulate wrongly or imperfectly; to fail to regulate.
misrehearse: To rehearse or quote incorrectly. Sir T. More.
misrelation: Erroneous relation or narration. Abp. Bramhall.
misstate: To state wrongly; as, to misstate a question in debate. Bp.Sanderson.
misterm: To call by a wrong name; to miscall.
misthrow: To throw wrongly.
mistiness: State of being misty.
misturn: To turn amiss; to pervert.
misurato: Measured; -- a direction to perform a passage in strict ormeasured time.
misway: A wrong way. [Obs.] Chaucer.
mithras: The sun god of the Persians.
mitome: The denser part of the protoplasm of a cell.
mitriform: Having the form of a miter, or a peaked cap; as, a mitriformcalyptra. Gray.
mixture: A kind of liquid medicine made up of many ingredients; esp., asopposed to solution, a liquid preparation in which the solidingredients are not completely dissolved.
moabitess: A female Moabite. Ruth i. 22.
moat: A deep trench around the rampart of a castle or other fortifiedplace, sometimes filled with water; a ditch.
mockable: Such as can be mocked. Shak.
mocking: Imitating, esp. in derision, or so as to cause derision;mimicking; derisive. Mocking bird (Zoöl.), a North American singingbird (Mimus polyglottos), remarkable for its exact imitations of thenotes of other birds. Its back is gray; the tail and wings areblackish, with a white patch on each wing; the outer tail feathersare partly white. The name is also applied to other species of thesame genus, found in Mexico, Central America, and the West Indies.-- Mocking thrush (Zoöl.), any species of the genus Harporhynchus,as the brown thrush (H. rufus).-- Mocking wren (Zoöl.), any American wren of the genus Thryothorus,esp. T. Ludovicianus.
mockish: Mock; counterfeit; sham. [Obs.]
moco: A South American rodent (Cavia rupestris), allied to the Guineapig, but larger; -- called also rock cavy.
moder: To moderate. [Obs.]
modernism: Modern practice; a thing of recent date; esp., a modern usageor mode of expression.
modifier: One who, or that which, modifies. Hume.
modulator: One who, or that which, modulates. Denham.
mogul: A heavy locomotive for freight traffic, having three pairs ofconnected driving wheels and a two-wheeled truck. Great, or Grand,Mogul, the sovereign of the empire founded in Hindostan by theMongols under Baber in the sixteenth century. Hence, a very importantpersonage; a lord; -- sometimes only mogul. Dryden.
mohair: The long silky hair or wool of the Angora goat of Asia Minor;also, a fabric made from this material, or an imitation of suchfabric.
mohock: See Mohawk.
mohur: A British Indian gold coin, of the value of fifteen silverrupees, or $7.21. Malcom.
moidore: A gold coin of Portugal, valued at about 27s. sterling.
moira: The deity who assigns to every man his lot.
molar: Of or pertaining to a mass of matter; -- said of the propertiesor motions of masses, as distinguished from those of molecules oratoms. Carpenter.
molecast: A little elevation of earth made by a mole; a molehill.Mortimer.
molecularity: The state of consisting of molecules; the state or quality ofbeing molecular.
mollipilose: Having soft hairs; downy.
mollitude: Softness; effeminacy; weakness. [R.]
mollusc: Same as Mollusk.
molluscum: A cutaneous disease characterized by numerous tumors, ofvarious forms, filled with a thick matter; -- so called from theresemblance of the tumors to some molluscous animals. Dunglison.
molosse: See Molossus.
molossus: A foot of three long syllables. [Written also molosse.]
molt: of Melt. Chaucer. Spenser.
molto: Much; very; as, molto adagio, very slow.
molybdena: See Molybdenite.
molybdenite: A mineral occurring in soft, lead-gray, foliated masses orscales, resembling graphite; sulphide of molybdenum.
molybdenous: See Molybdous.
molybdous: Of, pertaining to, or containing, molybdenum; specif.,designating those compounds in which molybdenum has a lower valenceas contrasted with molybdic compounds.
monachal: Of or pertaining to monks or a monastic life; monastic.
monadaria: The Infusoria.
monarchal: Pertaining to a monarch; suiting a monarch; sovoreign; regal;imperial.Satan, whom now transcendent glory raised Above his fellows, withmonarchal pride. Milton.
monarchize: To play the sovereign; to act the monarch. [R.] Shak.
monarchizer: One who monarchizes; also, a monarchist.
monde: The world; a globe as an ensign of royalty. [R.] A. Drummond.Le beau monde Etym
monest: To warn; to admonish; to advise. [Obs.] Wyclif (2 Cor. v. 20).
mongrel: The progeny resulting from a cross between two breeds, as ofdomestic animals; anything of mixed breed. Drayton.
monifier: A fossil fish.
monish: To admonish; to warn. See Admonish. [Archaic] Ascham.
monitorship: The post or office of a monitor.
monkflower: A name of certain curious orchids which bear three kinds offlowers formerly referred to three genera, but now ascertained to besexually different forms of the same genus (Catasetum tridentatum,etc.).
monking: Monkish. [R.] Coleridge.
monocline: A monoclinal fold.
monodist: A writer of a monody.
monogam: One of the Monogamia.
monogenist: One who maintains that the human races are all of one species;-- opposed to polygenist.
monograph: A written account or description of a single thing, or class ofthings; a special treatise on a particular subject of limited range.
monogynia: A Linnæan order of plants, including those which have only onestyle or stigma.
monogynous: Of or pertaining to Monogynia; having only one style or stigma.
monohemerous: Lasting but one day.
monolithal: Monolithic.
monometric: Same as Isometric.
monophonic: Single-voiced; having but one part; as, a monophoniccomposition; -- opposed to Ant
monophyllous: One-leaved; composed of a single leaf; as, a monophyllousinvolucre or calyx.
monopyrenous: Having but a single stone or kernel.
monostichous: Arranged in a single row on one side of an axis, as the flowersin grasses of the tribe Chloridæ.
monothalmic: Formed from one pistil; -- said of fruits. R. Brown.
monster: Monstrous in size. Pope.
monstrousness: The state or quality of being monstrous, unusual,extraordinary. Shak.
monte: A favorite gambling game among Spaniards, played with dice orcards.
montgolfier: A balloon which ascends by the buoyancy of air heated by afire; a fire balloon; -- so called from two brothers, Stephen andJoseph Montgolfier, of France, who first constructed and sent up afire balloon.
moonseed: A climbing plant of the genus Menispermum; -- so called fromthe crescentlike form of the seeds.
moonstone: A nearly pellucid variety of feldspar, showing pearly oropaline reflections from within. It is used as a gem. The bestspecimens come from Ceylon.
moorage: A place for mooring.
mooress: A female Moor; a Moorish woman.
moot: See 1st Mot. [Obs.] Chaucer.
mootman: One who argued moot cases in the inns of court.
mopsical: Shortsighted; mope-eyed.
morass: A tract of soft, wet ground; a marsh; a fen. Morass ore. (Min.)See Bog ore, under Bog.
morbidness: The quality or state of being morbid; morbidity.
mordication: The act of biting or corroding; corrosion. [R.] Bacon.
morello: A kind of nearly black cherry with dark red flesh and juice, --used chiefly for preserving.
morendo: Dying; a gradual decrescendo at the end of a strain or cadence.
moresk: Moresque. [Obs.]
morice: See Morisco.
morindin: A yellow dyestuff extracted from the root bark of an EastIndian plant (Morinda citrifolia).
morioplasty: The restoration of lost parts of the body.
morosaurus: An extinct genus of large herbivorous dinosaurs, found inJurassic strata in America.
morosely: Sourly; with sullen austerity.
morphonomy: The laws of organic formation.
morphosis: The order or mode of development of an organ or part.
morphotic: Connected with, or becoming an integral part of, a living unitor of the morphological framework; as, morphotic, or tissue,proteids. Foster.
mortise: A cavity cut into a piece of timber, or other material, toreceive something (as the end of another piece) made to fit it, andcalled a tenon. Mortise and tenon (Carp.), made with a mortise andtenon; joined or united by means of a mortise and tenon; -- usedadjectively.-- Mortise joint, a joint made by a mortise and tenon.-- Mortise lock. See under Lock.-- Mortise wheel, a cast-iron wheel, with wooden clogs inserted inmortises on its face or edge; -- also called mortise gear, and coregear.
morulation: The process of cleavage, or segmentation, of the ovum, by whicha morula is formed.
morus: A genus of trees, some species of which produce edible fruit;the mulberry. See Mulberry.
mossback: A veteran partisan; one who is so conservative in opinion thathe may be likened to a stone or old tree covered with moss.[Political Slang, U.S.]
motherhood: The state of being a mother; the character or office of amother.
mothy: Infested with moths; moth-eaten. "An old mothy saddle." Shak.
motte: A clump of trees in a prairie. [Local, U.S.]
motto: A sentence, phrase, or word, forming part of an heraldicachievment.
moult: See Molt.
moun: pl. of Mow, may. [Obs.] Wyclif.
moutan: The Chinese tree peony (Pæonia Mountan), a shrub with largeflowers of various colors.
mouther: One who mouths; an affected speaker.
movement: A system of mechanism for transmitting motion of a definitecharacter, or for transforming motion; as, the wheelwork of a watch.Febrille movement (Med.), an elevation of the body temperature; afever.-- Movement cure. (Med.) See Kinesiatrics.-- Movement of the bowels, an evacuation or stool; a passage ordischarge.
mow: A wry face. "Make mows at him." Shak.
mowburn: To heat and ferment in the mow, as hay when housed too green.
mowyer: A mower. [Obs.]
muchness: Greatness; extent. [Obs. or Colloq.]The quantity and muchness of time which it filcheth. W. Whately.Much of a muchness, much the same. [Colloq.] "Men's men; gentle orsimple, they 're much of muchness." G. Eliot.
mucigenous: Connected with the formation of mucin; resembling mucin.The mucigenous basis is manufactured at the expense of the ordinaryprotoplasm of the cell. Foster.
mucin: See Mucedin. [Obs.]
mucusin: Mucin. [R.]
mudwall: The European bee-eater. See Bee-eater. [Written also modwall.]
muff: A short hollow cylinder surrounding an object, as a pipe.
muffler: A cushion for terminating or softening a note made by astringed instrument with a keyboard.
mugiency: A bellowing. [Obs.]
mulch: Half-rotten straw, or any like substance strewn on the ground,as over the roots of plants, to protect from heat, drought, etc., andto preserve moisture.
mule: A hybrid animal; specifically, one generated between an ass anda mare, sometimes a horse and a she-ass. See Hinny.
mulish: Like a mule; sullen; stubborn.-- Mul"ish*ly, adv.-- Mul"ish*ness, n.
mullah: See Mollah.
multiformous: Multiform. [Obs.]
multigranulate: Having, or consisting of, many grains.
multiplane: Having several or many planes or plane surfaces; as, amultiplane kite.
multiplicate: Consisting of many, or of more than one; multiple; multifold.Multiplicate flower (Bot.), a flower that is double, or has anunusual number of petals in consequence of the abnormalmultiplication of the parts of the floral whorls.
multipotent: Having manifold power, or power to do many things. "Jovemultipotent." Shak.
multiradiate: Having many rays.
multiseptate: Divided into many chambers by partitions, as the pith of thepokeweed.
multisulcate: Having many furrows.
multivocal: Signifying many different things; of manifold meaning;equivocal. "An ambiguous multivocal word." Coleridge.-- n.
multum: An extract of quassia licorice, fraudulently used by brewers inorder to economize malt and hops. Craig. Hard multum, a preparationmade from Cocculus Indicus, etc., used to impart an intoxicatingquality to beer.
mum: Silent; not speaking. Thackeray.The citizens are mum, and speak not a word. Shak.
mumbling: Low; indistinct; inarticulate.-- Mum"bling*ly, adv.
mummified: Converted into a mummy or a mummylike substance; having theappearance of a mummy; withered.
mungcorn: Same as Mangcorn.
mungo: A fibrous material obtained by deviling rags or the remnants ofwoolen goods.
municipalism: Municipal condition.
municipality: A municipal district; a borough, city, or incorporated town orvillage.
muniment: A record; the evidences or writings whereby a man is enabled todefend the title to his estate; title deeds and papers. Blount.Muniment house or room, that room in a cathedral, castle, or otherpublic building, which is used for keeping the records, charters,seals, deeds, and the like. Gwilt.
murr: A catarrh. [Obs.] Gascoigne.
murrayin: A glucoside found in the flowers of a plant (Murraya exotica)of South Asia, and extracted as a white amorphous slightly bittersubstance.
musca: A genus of dipterous insects, including the common house fly,and numerous allied species.
muschelkalk: A kind of shell limestone, whose strata form the middle one ofthe three divisions of the Triassic formation in Germany. See Chart,under Geology.
musci: An order or subclass of cryptogamous plants; the mosses. SeeMoss, and Cryptogamia.
muscosity: Mossiness. Jonhson.
muskellunge: A large American pike (Esox nobilitor) found in the GreatLakes, and other Northern lakes, and in the St. Lawrence River. It isvalued as a food fish. [Written also maskallonge, maskinonge,muskallonge, muskellonge, and muskelunjeh.]
muskogees: A powerful tribe of North American Indians that formerlyoccupied the region of Georgia, Florida, and Alabama. Theyconstituted a large part of the Creek confederacy. [Written alsoMuscogees.]
muss: A scramble, as when small objects are thrown down, to be takenby those who can seize them; a confused struggle. Shak.
mussel: Any one of many species of marine bivalve shells of the genusMytilus, and related genera, of the family Mytidæ. The common mussel(Mytilus edulis; see Illust. under Byssus), and the larger, or horse,mussel (Modiola modiolus), inhabiting the shores both of Europe andAmerica, are edible. The former is extensively used as food inEurope.
mussulmanic: Of, pertaining to, or like, the Mussulmans, or their customs:Mohammedan.
muzzy: Absent-minded; dazed; muddled; stupid.The whole company stared at me with a whimsical, muzzy look, like menwhose senses were a little obfuscated by beer rather then wine. W.Irving.
mycomelic: Pertaining to, or designating, a complex nitrogenous acid ofthe alloxan group, obtained as a honey-yellow powder. Its solutionshave a gelatinous consistency.
mydatoxin: A poisonous amido acid, C6H13NO2, separated by Brieger fromdecaying horseflesh. In physiological action, it is similar tocurare.
mydriatic: Causing dilatation of the pupil.-- n.
mynchery: A nunnery; -- a term still applied to the ruins of certainnunneries in England.
myohaematin: A red-colored respiratory pigment found associated withhemoglobin in the muscle tissue of a large number of animals, bothvertebrate and invertebrate.
myriologist: One who composes or sings a myriologue.
myriologue: An extemporaneous funeral song, composed and sung by a woman onthe death of a friend. [Modern Greece]
mysis: A genus of small schizopod shrimps found both in fresh and saltwater; the opossum shrimps. One species inhabits the Great Lakes ofNorth America, and is largely eaten by the whitefish. The marinespecies form part of the food of right whales.
mystery: The consecrated elements in the eucharist.
mytacism: Too frequent use of the letter m, or of the sound representedby it.
myxophyta: A phylum of the vegetable kingdom consisting of the classMyxomycetes. By some botanists it is not separated from theThallophyta.
myxopod: A rhizopod or moneran. Also used adjectively; as, a myxopodstate.
nacker: See Nacre. Johnson.
naevose: Spotted; frecled.
nailbrush: A brush for cleaning the nails.
nais: See Naiad.
naivety: , n. Naïveté. Carlyle.
nandine: An African carnivore (Nandinia binotata), allied to the civets.It is spotted with black.
nankeen: Trousers made of nankeen. Ld. Lytton. Nankeen bird (Zoöl.), theAustralian night heron (Nycticorax Caledonicus); -- called alsoquaker.
naphthoic: Pertaining to, derived from, or related to, naphthalene; --used specifically to designate any one of a series of carboxylderivatives, called naphthoic acids.
napoleonic: Of or pertaining to Napoleon I., or his family; resembling, orhaving the qualities of, Napoleon I. Lowell.
napoleonist: A supporter of the dynasty of the Napoleons.
napu: A very small chevrotain (Tragulus Javanicus), native of Java.It is about the size of a hare, and is noted for its agility inleaping. Called also Java musk deer, pygmy musk deer, and deerlet.
narcotical: Narcotic.-- Nar*cot"ic*al*ly, adv.
narcotize: To imbue with, or subject to the influence of, a narcotic; toput into a state of narcosis.
nariform: Formed like the nose.
narrate: To tell, rehearse, or recite, as a story; to relate theparticulars of; to go through with in detail, as an incident ortransaction; to give an account of.
narrative: That which is narrated; the recital of a story; a continuousaccount of the particulars of an event or transaction; a story.Cyntio was much taken with my narrative. Tatler.
nasalization: The act of nasalizing, or the state of being nasalized.
nasiform: Having the shape of a nose.
nasion: The middle point of the nasofrontal suture.
natantly: In a floating manner; swimmingly.
natation: The act of floating on the water; swimming. Sir T. Browne.
natatorial: Inclined or adapted to swim; swimming; as, natatorial birds.
naticoid: Like or belonging to Natica, or the family Naticæ.
native: Any of the live stock found in a region, as distinguished fromsuch as belong to pure and distinct imported breeds. [U.S.]
natively: By natural or original condition; naturally; originally.
natterjack: A European toad (Bufo calamita), having a yellow line along itsback.
nauropometer: An instrument for measuring the amount which a ship heels atsea.
nauseative: Causing nausea; nauseous.
navew: A kind of small turnip, a variety of Brassica campestris. SeeBrassica. [Writen also naphew.]
navigator: One who navigates or sails; esp., one who direct the course ofa ship, or one who is skillful in the art of navigation; also, a bookwhich teaches the art of navigation; as, Bowditch's Navigator.
nazarite: A Jew bound by a vow to lave the hair uncut, to abstain fromwine and strong drink, and to practice extraordinary purity of lifeand devotion, the obligation being for life, or for a certain time.The word is also used adjectively.
neap: The tongue or pole of a cart or other vehicle drawn by twoanimals. [U.S.]
neat: Cattle of the genus Bos, as distinguished from horses, sheep,and goats; an animal of the genus Bos; as, a neat's tongue; a neat'sfoot. Chaucer.Wherein the herds[men] were keeping of their neat. Spenser.The steer, the heifer, and the calf Are all called neat. Shak.A neat and a sheep of his own. Tusser.Neat's-foot, an oil obtained by boiling the feet of neat cattle. Itis used to render leather soft and pliable.
neatness: The state or quality of being neat.
nebulization: The act or process of nebulizing; atomization.
nebulize: To reduce (as a liquid) to a fine spray or vapor; to atomize.
necessitarian: Of or pertaining to the doctrine of philosophical necessity inregard to the origin and existence of things, especially as appliedto the actings or choices of the will; -- opposed to libertarian.
necessitarianism: The doctrine of philosophical necessity; the doctrine thatresults follow by invariable sequence from causes, and esp. that thewill is not free, but that human actions and choices resultinevitably from motives; deteminism. M. Arnold.
neckband: A band which goes around the neck; often, the part at the topof a garment.
necktie: A scarf, band, or kerchief of silk, etc., passing around theneck or collar and tied in front; a bow of silk, etc., fastened infront of the neck.
necromantic: Conjuration. [R.]With all the necromantics of their art. Young.
necrosed: Affected by necrosis; dead; as, a necrosed bone. Dunglison.
nectocalyx: The cavity of a nectocalyx.
negative: Asserting absence of connection between a subject and apredicate; as, a negative proposition.
neglectingly: Carelessly; heedlessly. Shak.
negotious: Very busy; attentive to business; active. [R.] D. Rogers.
negro: A black man; especially, one of a race of black or very darkpersons who inhabit the greater part of tropical Africa, and aredistinguished by crisped or curly hair, flat noses, and thickprotruding lips; also, any black person of unmixed African blood,wherever found.
negrohead: An inferior commercial variety of India rubber made up intoround masses.
nehiloth: A term supposed to mean, perforated wind instruments of music,as pipes or flutes. Ps. v. (heading).
nemaline: Having the form of threads; fibrous.
nematelmia: Same as Nemathelminthes.
nematocalyx: One of a peculiar kind of cups, or calicles, found uponhydroids of the family Plumularidæ. They contain nematocysts. SeePlumularia.
nematognathi: An order of fishes having barbels on the jaws. It includes thecatfishes, or siluroids. See Siluroid.
neolithic: Of or pertaining to, or designating, an era characterized bylate remains in stone.The Neolithic era includes the latter half of the "Stone age;" thehuman relics which belong to it are associated with the remains ofanimals not yet extinct. The kitchen middens of Denmark, the lakedwellings of Switzerland, and the stockaded islands, or "crannogs,"of the British Isles, belong to this era. Lubbock.
neologically: , adv. In a neological manner.
nep: Catnip.
nereidian: Any annelid resembling Nereis, or of the family Lycoridæ orallied families.
nereis: A Nereid. See Nereid.
nervate: Nerved.
nest: An aggregated mass of any ore or mineral, in an isolated state,within a rock.
nethermost: Lowest; as, the nethermost abyss. Milton.
neurologist: One who is versed in neurology; also, one skilled in thetreatment of nervous diseases.
neuron: The brain and spinal cord; the cerebro-spinal axis;myelencephalon. B. G. Wilder.
neuropod: A neuropodous animal. G. Rolleston.
neutralization: The act or process by which an acid and a base are combined insuch proportions that the resulting compound is neutral. See Neutral,a., 4.
newfangledness: Affectation of, or fondness for, novelty; vain or affectedfashion or form.
newish: Somewhat new; nearly new. Bacon.
newsboy: A boy who distributes or sells newspaper.
newtonian: Of or pertaining to Sir Isaac Newton, or his discoveries.Newtonian philosophy, the philosophy of Sir Isaac Newton; -- appliedto the doctrine of the universe as expounded in Newton's "Principia,"to the modern or experimental philosophy (as opposed to the theoriesof Descartes and others), and, most frequently, to the mathematicaltheory of universal gravitation.-- Newtonian telescope (Astron.), a reflecting telescope, in whichrays from the large speculum are received by a plane mirror placeddiagonally in the axis, and near the open end of the tube, and thrownat right angles toward one side of the tube, where the image isformed and viewed through the eyeplace.-- Newtonian theory of light. See Note under Light.
nib: The bill or beak of a bird; the neb.
nibble: To bite by little at a time; to seize gently with the mouth; toeat slowly or in small bits.Thy turfy mountains, where live nibbling sheep. Shak.
nibelungenlied: A great medieval German epic of unknown authorship containingtraditions which refer to the Burgundians at the time of Attila(called Etzel in the poem) and mythological elements pointing toheathen times.
niche: A cavity, hollow, or recess, generally within the thickness ofa wall, for a statue, bust, or other erect ornament. hence, anysimilar position, literal or figurative.Images defended from the injuries of the weather by niches of stonewherein they are placed. Evelun.
niched: Placed in a niche. "Those niched shapes of noble mold."Tennyson.
nicking: Small coal produced in making the nicking.
nictitation: The act of winking.
nidget: A fool; an idiot, a coward. [Obs.] Camden.
nidification: The act or process of building a nest.
niellist: One who practices the style of ornamentation called niello.
niggardy: Niggardliness. [Obs.] Chaucer.
nightish: Of or pertaining to night.
nihil: Nothing. Nihil album Etym
nilgau: see Nylghau.
niobe: The daughter of Tantalus, and wife of Amphion, king of Thebes.Her pride in her children provoked Apollo and Diana, who slew themall. Niobe herself was changed by the gods into stone.
nisey: A simpleton. [Obs.]
nitriary: An artificial bed of animal matter for the manufacture of niterby nitrification. See Nitrification, 2.
nitrogen: A colorless nonmetallic element, tasteless and odorless,comprising four fifths of the atmosphere by volume. It is chemicallyvery inert in the free state, and as such is incapable of supportinglife (hence the name azote still used by French chemists); but itforms many important compounds, as ammonia, nitric acid, thecyanides, etc, and is a constituent of all organized living tissues,animal or vegetable. Symbol N. Atomic weight 14. It was formerlyregarded as a permanent noncondensible gas, but was liquefied in 1877by Cailletet of Paris, and Pictet of Geneva.
nitrophnol: Any one of a series of nitro derivatives of phenol. They areyellow oily or crystalline substances and have well-defined acidproperties, as picric acid.
nitrosalicylic: Of, pertaining to, or designating, a nitro derivative ofsalicylic acid, called also anilic acid.
nitrosylic: Of, pertaining to, or containing, nitrosyl; as, nitrosylicacid.
nitry: Nitrous. [Obs.]
nobbily: In a nobby manner. [Slang]
nobby: Stylish; modish; elegant; showy; aristocratic; fashionable.[Slang]
nobiliary: Of or pertaining to the nobility. Fitzed. Hall.
nocturne: A night piece, or serenade. The name is now used for a certaingraceful and expressive form of instrumental composition, as thenocturne for orchestra in Mendelsohn's "Midsummer-Night's Dream"music.
nocuous: Hurtful; noxious. [R.] -- Noc"u*ous*ly, adv. [R.]
nodation: Act of making a knot, or state of being knotted. [R.]
nodding: Curved so that the apex hangs down; having the top bentdownward.
nodosarine: Resembling in form or structure a foraminiferous shell of thegenus Nodosaria.-- n. (Zoöl.)
nodosity: Nodose; knotty; knotted. [Obs.]
noiance: Annoyance. [Obs.] Tusser.
noil: A short or waste piece or knot of wool separated from thelonger staple by combing; also, a similar piece or shred of wastesilk.
noisiness: The state or quality of being noisy.
nole: The head. [Obs.] Shak.
nomadic: Of or pertaining to nomads, or their way of life; wandering;moving from place to place for subsistence; as, a nomadic tribe.-- No*mad"ic*al*ly, adv.
nomadize: To lead the life of a nomad; to wander with flocks and herdsfor the sake of finding pasturage.The Vogules nomadize chiefly about the Rivers Irtish, Obi, Kama, andVolga. W. Tooke.
nominally: In a nominal manner; by name; in name only; not in reality.Burke.
nonane: One of a group of metameric hydrocarbons C9H20 of the paraffinseries; -- so called because of the nine carbon atoms in themolecule. Normal nonane is a colorless volatile liquid, an ingredientof ordinary kerosene.
nonarrival: Failure to arrive.
noncommittal: A state of not being committed or pledged; forbearance orrefusal to commit one's self. Also used adjectively.
nonconductor: A substance which does not conduct, that is, convey ortransmit, heat, electricity, sound, vibration, or the like, or whichtransmits them with difficulty; an insulator; as, wool is anonconductor of heat; glass and dry wood are nonconductors ofelectricity.
nondescript: Not hitherto described; novel; hence, odd; abnormal;unclassifiable.
nondo: A coarse umbelliferous plant (Ligusticum actæifolium) with alarge aromatic root. It is found chiefly in the Alleghany region.Also called Angelico.
nonett: The titmouse. [Obs.]
nonexportation: A failure of exportation; a not exporting of commodities.
nonimporting: Not importing; not bringing from foreign countries.
nonjurorism: The doctrines, or action, of the Nonjurors.
nonplane: Not lying in one plane; -- said of certain curves.
nonprofessional: Not belonging to a profession; not done by, or proceeding from,professional men; contrary to professional usage.
nonrecurrent: Not recurring.
nonresident: Not residing in a particular place, on one's own estate, or inone's proper place; as, a nonresident clergyman or proprietor oflands.
nonslaveholding: Not possessing or holding slaves; as, a nonslaveholding State.
nonsolvency: Inability to pay debts; insolvency.
nontoxic: Not toxic.
noonshun: See Nunchion. Nares.
nope: A bullfinch. [Prov. Eng.]
norbertine: See Premonstrant.
norse: Of or pertaining to ancient Scandinavia, or to the languagespoken by its inhabitants.
northernly: Northerly. [Obs.] Hakewill.
northumbrian: Of or pertaining to Northumberland in England.-- n.
northwester: A storm or gale from the northwest; a strong northwest wind.
northwestern: Of, pertaining to, or being in, the northwest; in a directiontoward the northwest; coming from the northwest; northwesterly; as, anorthwestern course.
nosebleed: The yarrow. See Yarrow.
not: Wot not; know not; knows not. [Obs.] Chaucer.
notelet: A little or short note; a billet.
noteworthy: Worthy of observation or notice; remarkable.
notwheat: Wheat not bearded. Carew.
nould: Would not. [Obs.] "By those who nould repent." Fairfax.
nourisher: One who, or that which, nourishes. Milton.
nourishingly: Nutritively; cherishingly.
noursle: To nurse; to rear; to bring up. [Obs.] [Written also nosel,nousel, nousle, nowsle, nusle, nuzzle, etc.]She noursled him till years he raught. Spenser.
novel: Of recent origin or introduction; not ancient; new; hence, outof the ordinary course; unusual; strange; surprising.
nowadays: In these days; at the present time.What men of spirit, nowadays, Come to give sober judgment of newplays Garrick.
nuchal: Of, pertaining to, or in the region of, the back, or nape, ofthe neck; -- applied especially to the anterior median plate in thecarapace of turtles.
nucleate: Having a nucleus; nucleated.
nuclein: A constituent of the nuclei of all cells. It is a colorlessamorphous substance, readily soluble in alkaline fluids andespecially characterized by its comparatively large content ofphosphorus. It also contains nitrogen and sulphur.
nucleolus: A small rounded body contained in the nucleus of a cell or aprotozoan.
nudibranchiate: Same as Nudibranch.
nugation: The act or practice of trifling. [R.] Bacon.
numerically: In a numerical manner; in numbers; with respect to number, orsameness in number; as, a thing is numerically the same, ornumerically different.
nummulation: The arrangement of the red blood corpuscles in rouleaux, likepiles of coins, as when a drop of human blood is examined under themicroscope.
nummulite: A fossil of the genus Nummulites and allied genera.
numskulled: Stupid; doltish. [Colloq.]
nunciature: The office of a nuncio. Clarendon.
nutrient: Nutritious; nourishing; promoting growth.-- n.
nutritional: Of or pertaining to nutrition; as, nutritional changes.
nye: A brood or flock of pheasants.
nymphean: Of, pertaining to, or appropriate to, nymphs; inhabited bynymphs; as, a nymphean cave.
oaker: See Ocher. [Obs.] Spenser.
oaky: Resembling oak; strong. Bp. Hall.
obe: See Obi.
obedible: Obedient. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
obelus: A mark [thus ---, or ÷]; -- so called as resembling a needle.In old MSS. or editions of the classics, it marks suspected passagesor readings.
obesity: The state or quality of being obese; incumbrance of flesh.
objectize: To make an object of; to regard as an object; to place in theposition of an object.In the latter, as objectized by the former, arise the emotions andaffections. Coleridge.
oblate: Flattened or depressed at the poles; as, the earth is an oblatespheroid.
obligatory: Binding in law or conscience; imposing duty or obligation;requiring performance or forbearance of some act; -- often followedby on or upon; as, obedience is obligatory on a soldier.As long as the law is obligatory, so long our obedience is due. Jer.Taylor.
obliger: One who, or that which, obliges. Sir H. Wotton.
obliterative: Tending or serving to obliterate.
oboe: One of the higher wind instruments in the modern orchestra, yetof great antiquity, having a penetrating pastoral quality of tone,somewhat like the clarinet in form, but more slender, and sounded bymeans of a double reed; a hautboy. Oboe d'amore Etym
obolary: Possessing only small coins; impoverished. [R.] Lamb.
observatory: A lookout on a flank of a battery whence an officer can notethe range and effect of the fire. Farrow.
obsolesce: To become obsolescent. [R.] Fitzed. Hall.
obstetricate: To perform the office of midwife. [Obs.] "Nature doesobstetricate." Evelyn.
obstructer: One who obstructs or hinders.
obstructionist: One who hinders progress; one who obstructs business, as in alegislative body.-- a.
obtruder: One who obtrudes. Boyle.
obtuse: Having an obtuse angle; as, an obtuse-angled triangle.
obumbration: Act of darkening or obscuring. [R.] Sir T. More.
obviation: The act of obviating, or the state of being obviated.
ocarina: A kind of small simple wind instrument.
ochre: See Ocher.
ochreous: See Ocherous.
ocra: See Okra.
octaemeron: A fast of eight days before a great festival. Shipley.
octandria: A Linnæan class of plants, in which the flowers have eightstamens not united to one another or to the pistil.
octangular: Having eight angles; eight-angled.-- Oc*tan"gu*lar*ness, n.
octet: A composition for eight parts, usually for eight soloinstruments or voices.
octodentate: Having eight teeth.
octodont: Of or pertaining to the Octodontidæ, a family of rodents whichincludes the coypu, and many other South American species.
octoedrical: See Octahedral. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
octylic: Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, octyl; as, octylicether.
ocularly: By the eye, or by actual sight.
oculist: One skilled in treating diseases of the eye.
oculomotor: Of or pertaining to the movement of the eye; -- appliedespecially to the common motor nerves (or third pair of cranialnerves) which supply many of the muscles of the orbit.-- n.
oculus: A round window, usually a small one.
odic: Of or pertaining to od. See Od. [Archaic] -- Od"ic*al*ly, adv.
odin: The supreme deity of the Scandinavians; -- the same as Woden,of the German tribes.There in the Temple, carved in wood, The image of great Odin stood.Longfellow.
odontocete: A subdivision of Cetacea, including the sperm whale, dolphins,etc.; the toothed whales.
odontographic: Of or pertaining to odontography.
odontolite: A fossil tooth colored a bright blue by phosphate of iron. Itis used as an imitation of turquoise, and hence called boneturquoise.
odontophorous: Having an odontophore.
odorous: Having or emitting an odor or scent, esp. a sweet odor;fragrant; sweet-smelling. "Odorous bloom." Keble.Such fragrant flowers do give most odorous smell. Spenser.-- O"dor*ous*ly, adv.-- O"dor*ous*ness, n.
ods: A corruption of God's; -- formerly used in oaths andejaculatory phrases. "Ods bodikin." "Ods pity." Shak.
offence: See Offense.
offend: To oppose or obstruct in duty; to cause to stumble; to cause tosin or to fall. [Obs.]Who hath you misboden or offended. Chaucer.If thy right eye offend thee, pluck it out... And if thy right handoffend thee, cut it off. Matt. v. 29, 3O.Great peace have they which love thy law, and nothing shall offendthem. Ps. cxix. 165.
offension: Assault; attack. [Obs.] Chaucer.
offerable: Capable of being offered; suitable or worthy to be offered.
official: Approved by authority; sanctioned by the pharmacopoeia;appointed to be used in medicine; as, an official drug orpreparation. Cf. Officinal.
officinal: Kept in stock by apothecaries; -- said of such drugs andmedicines as may be obtained without special preparation orcompounding; not magistral.
oftentide: Frequently; often. [Obs.] Robert of Brunne.
ogdoad: A thing made up of eight parts. Milman.
ogham: A particular kind of writing practiced by the ancient Irish,and found in inscriptions on stones, metals, etc. [Written alsoogam.]
ogive: The arch or rib which crosses a Gothic vault diagonally.
oglio: See Olio.
ogre: An imaginary monster, or hideous giant of fairy tales, wholived on human beings; hence, any frightful giant; a cruel monster.His schoolroom must have resembled an ogre's den. Maccaulay.
ogress: A female ogre. Tennyson.
oilbird: See Guacharo.
oiled: Covered or treated with oil; dressed with, or soaked in, oil.Oiled silk, silk rendered waterproof by saturation with boiled oil.
oldster: An old person. [Jocular] H. Kingsley.
olf: The European bullfinch. [Prov.Eng.]
olfactor: A smelling organ; a nose. [R.]
oligarchy: A form of government in which the supreme power is placed inthe hands of a few persons; also, those who form the ruling few.All oligarchies, wherein a few men domineer, do what they list.Burton.
olivite: See Olivin.
olympionic: An ode in honor of a victor in the Olympic games. [R.] Johnson.
om: A mystic syllable or ejaculation used by Hindus and Buddhistsin religious rites, -- orig. among the Hindus an exclamation ofassent, like Amen, then an invocation, and later a symbol of thetrinity formed by Vishnu, Siva, and Brahma. -- Om mani padme hun, asacred formula of buddhism (esp. of the Lamaists) translated "O, theJewel in the Lotus, Amen," and referring to Amitabha, who is commonlyrepresented as standing or sitting within a lotus.
omer: A Hebrew measure, the tenth of an ephah. See Ephah. Ex. xvi.36.
omnibus: A sheet-iron cover for articles in a leer or annealing arch, toprotect them from drafts. Omnibus bill, a legislative bill whichprovides for a number of miscellaneous enactments or appropriations.[Parliamentary Cant, U.S.] -- Omnibus box, a large box in a theater,on a level with the stage and having communication with it. [Eng.]Thackeray.
omnify: To render universal; to enlarge. [R.]Omnify the disputed point into a transcendent, and you may defy theopponent to lay hold of it. Coleridge.
omnipresent: Present in all places at the same time; ubiquitous; as, theomnipresent Jehovah. Prior.
omniscious: All-knowing. [Obs.] Hakewill.
omnium: The aggregate value of the different stocks in which a loan togovernment is now usually funded. M'Culloch.
omosternal: Of or pertaining to the omosternum.
oncograph: An instrument for registering the changes observable with anoncometer.
ondogram: The record of an ondograph.
onely: See Only. [Obs.] Spenser.
oneness: The state of being one; singleness in number; individuality;unity.Our God is one, or rather very oneness. Hooker.
only: Save or except (that); -- an adversative used elliptically withor without that, and properly introducing a single fact orconsideration.He might have seemed some secretary or clerk . . . only that his low,flat, unadorned cap . . . indicated that he belonged to the city. SirW. Scott.
onomatopoeia: The formation of words in imitation of sounds; a figure ofspeech in which the sound of a word is imitative of the sound of thething which the word represents; as, the buzz of bees; the hiss of agoose; the crackle of fire.
onrush: A rushing onward.
onstead: A single farmhouse; a steading. [Prov.Eng. & Scot.] Grose.Jamieson.
onto: On the top of; upon; on. See On to, under On, prep.
onward: Toward a point before or in front; forward; progressively; as,to move onward.Not one looks backward, onward still he goes. Pope.
oo: One. [Obs.] Chaucer.
opacous: Opaque. [R.] Milton.-- O*pa"cous*ness, n. [R.]
opaqueness: The state or quality of being impervious to light; opacity. Dr.H. More.
opelet: A bright-colored European actinian (Anemonia, or Anthea,sulcata); -- so called because it does not retract its tentacles.
openwork: A quarry; an open cut. Raymond.
operant: Operative. [R.] Shak.-- n.
operation: Something to be done; some transformation to be made uponquantities, the transformation being indicated either by rules orsymbols.
operatively: In an operative manner.
ophiophagus: A genus of venomous East Indian snakes, which feed on othersnakes. Ophiophagus elaps is said to be the largest and most deadlyof poisonous snakes.
opination: The act of thinking; a supposition. [Obs.]
opisthopulmonate: Having the pulmonary sac situated posteriorly; -- said ofcertain air-breathing Mollusca.
opium: The inspissated juice of the Papaver somniferum, or whitepoppy.
oppressor: One who oppresses; one who imposes unjust burdens on others;one who harasses others with unjust laws or unreasonable severity.The orphan pines while the oppressor feeds. Shak.To relieve the oppressed and to punish the oppressor. Swift.
optionally: In an optional manner.
opuntia: A genus of cactaceous plants; the prickly pear, or Indian fig.
opusculum: An opuscule. Smart.
opye: Opium. [Obs.] Chaucer.
orange: The tree that bears oranges; the orange tree.
orator: An officer who is the voice of the university upon all publicoccasions, who writes, reads, and records all letters of a publicnature, presents, with an appropriate address, those persons on whomhonorary degrees are to be conferred, and performs other like duties;-- called also public orator.
oratorial: Oratorical. [R.] Swift. --Or`a*to"ri*al*ly, adv.
orcein: A reddish brown amorphous dyestuff,
orchil: See Archil.
ordinability: Capability of being ordained or appointed. [Obs.] Bp. Bull.
ordonnance: The disposition of the parts of any composition with regard toone another and the whole.Their dramatic ordonnance of the parts. Coleridge.
ordurous: Of or pertaining to ordure; filthy. Drayton.
orectic: Of or pertaining to the desires; hence, impelling togratification; appetitive.
orfgild: Restitution for cattle; a penalty for taking away cattle.Cowell.
organism: An organized being; a living body, either vegetable or animal,compozed of different organs or parts with functions which areseparate, but mutually dependent, and essential to the life of theindividual.
organist: One who plays on the organ.
organogeny: Organogenesis.
organoleptic: Making an impression upon an organ; plastic; -- said of theeffect or impression produced by any substance on the organs oftouch, taste, or smell, and also on the organism as a whole.
orgillous: Proud; haughty. [Obs.] Shak.
orgy: A frantic revel; drunken revelry. See Orgies
origenism: The opinions of Origen of Alexandria, who lived in the 3dcentury, one of the most learned of the Greek Fathers. Prominent inhis teaching was the doctrine that all created beings, includingSatan, will ultimately be saved.
origin: The point of attachment or end of a muscle which is fixedduring contraction; -- in contradistinction to insertion. Origin ofcoördinate axes (Math.), the point where the axes intersect. See Noteunder Ordinate.
orkneyan: Of or pertaining to the Orkney islands. "Orkneyan skerries."Longfellow.
ornateness: The quality of being ornate.
ornithologist: One skilled in ornithology; a student of ornithology; one whodescribes birds.
ornithomancy: Divination by means of birds, their flight, etc.Ornithomancy grew into an elaborate science. De Quincey.
orohippus: A genus of American Eocene mammals allied to the horse, buthaving four toes in front and three behind.
orological: Of or pertaining to orology.
orotundity: The orotund mode of intonation.
orpheus: The famous mythic Thracian poet, son of the Muse Calliope, andhusband of Eurydice. He is reputed to have had power to entrancebeasts and inanimate objects by the music of his lyre.
orrach: See Orach.
orthoceras: An extinct genus of Paleozoic Cephalopoda, having a long,straight, conical shell. The interior is divided into numerouschambers by transverse septa.
orthodiagonal: The diagonal or lateral axis in a monoclinic crystal which isat right angles with the vertical axis.
orthodromics: The art of sailing in a direct course, or on the arc of a greatcircle, which is the shortest distance between any two points on thesurface of the globe; great-circle sailing; orthodromy.
orthognathous: Having the front of the head, or the skull, nearlyperpendicular, not retreating backwards above the jaws; -- opposed toAnt
orthology: The right description of things. [R.] Fotherby.
orthometry: The art or practice of constructing verses correctly; the lawsof correct versification.
orthoscope: An instrument designed to show the condition of the superficialportions of the eye.
orthoscopic: Giving an image in correct or normal proportions; giving a flatfield of view; as, an orthoscopic eyepiece.
ortygan: One of several species of East Indian birds of the generaOrtygis and Hemipodius. They resemble quails, but lack the hind toe.See Turnix.
orval: A kind of sage (Salvia Horminum).
oryctologist: One versed in oryctology. [Obs.]
oscitantly: In an oscitant manner.
osculant: Adhering closely; embracing; -- applied to certain creepinganimals, as caterpillars.
osculate: To touch closely, so as to have a common curvature at the pointof contact. See Osculation, 2.
osiris: One of the principal divinities of Egypt, the brother andhusband of Isis. He was figured as a mummy wearing the royal cap ofUpper Egypt, and was symbolized by the sacred bull, called Apis. Cf.Serapis.-- O*sir"i*an, a.
osmiamic: Of, pertaining to, or designating, a nitrogenous acid ofosmium, H2N2Os2O5, forming a well-known series of yellow salts.
osmious: Denoting those compounds of osmium in which the element has avalence relatively lower than in the osmic compounds; as, osmiouschloride. [Written also osmous.] Osmious acid (Chem.), an acidderived from osmium, analogous to sulphurous acid, and formingunstable salts. It is a brown amorphous substance.
osmund: A fern of the genus Osmunda, or flowering fern. The mostremarkable species is the osmund royal, or royal fern (Osmundaregalis), which grows in wet or boggy places, and has large bipinnatefronds, often with a panicle of capsules at the top. The rootstockcontains much starch, and has been used in stiffening linen.
osphradium: The olfactory organ of some Mollusca. It is connected with theorgan of respiration.
osseous: Composed of bone; resembling bone; capable of forming bone;bony; ossific.
ostensibly: In an ostensible manner; avowedly; professedly; apparently.Walsh.Ostensibly, we were intended to prevent filibustering into Texas, butreally as a menace to Mexico. U. S. Grant.
ostentatious: Fond of, or evincing, ostentation; unduly conspicuous;pretentious; boastful.Far from being ostentatious of the good you do. Dryden.The ostentatious professions of many years. Macaulay.-- Os`ten*ta"tious*ly, adv.-- Os`ten*ta"tious*ness, n.
osteodentine: A hard substance, somewhat like bone, which is sometimesdeposited within the pulp cavity of teeth.
osteographer: An osteologist.
osteophone: An instrument for transmission of auditory vibrations throughthe bones of the head, so as to be appreciated as sounds by personsdeaf from causes other than those affecting the nervous apparatus ofhearing.
osteozoa: Same as Vertebrata.
ostleress: A female ostler. [R.] Tennyson.
ostlery: See Hostelry. [Obs.]
ostracite: A fossil oyster.
ostrich: A large bird of the genus Struthio, of which Struthio camelusof Africa is the best known species. It has long and very stronglegs, adapted for rapid running; only two toes; a long neck, nearlybare of feathers; and short wings incapable of flight. The adult maleis about eight feet high.
otoscope: An instrument for examining the condition of the ear.
ounding: Waving. [Obs.]Ounding, paling, winding, or bending . . . of cloth. Chaucer.
ours: See Note under Our.
outbuilding: A building separate from, and subordinate to, the main house;an outhouse.
outfit: A fitting out, or equipment, as of a ship for a voyage, or of aperson for an expedition in an unoccupied region or residence in aforeign land; things required for equipment; the expense of, orallowance made for, equipment, as by the government of the UnitedStates to a diplomatic agent going abroad.
outgeneral: To exceed in generalship; to gain advantage over by superiormilitary skill or executive ability; to outmaneuver. Chesterfield.
outgive: To surpass in giving. Dryden.
outguard: A guard or small body of troops at a distance from the mainbody of an army, to watch for the approach of an enemy; hence,anything for defense placed at a distance from the thing to bedefended.
outhouse: A small house or building at a little distance from the mainhouse; an outbuilding.
outjest: To surpass in jesting; to drive out, or away, by jesting. [R.]Shak.
outness: The state or quality of being distanguishable from theperceiving mind, by being in space, and possessing marerial quality;externality; objectivity.The outness of the objects of sense. Sir W. Hamiltom.
outpassion: To exceed in passion.
outpoise: To outweigh. Howell.
outraze: To obliterate. [Obs.] Sandys.
outrecuidance: Excessive presumption. [R.] B. Jonson.
outroom: An outer room. [R.] Fuller.
outshut: To shut out. [R.] Donne.
outstretch: To stretch out. Milton.
outweed: To weed out. [Obs.]
oval: Broadly elliptical. Oval chuck (Mech.), a lathe chuck soconstructed that work attached to it, and cut by the turning tool inthe usual manner, becomes of an oval form.
oven: A place arched over with brick or stonework, and used forbaking, heating, or drying; hence, any structure, whether fixed orportable, which may be heated for baking, drying, etc.; esp., now, achamber in a stove, used for baking or roasting.
overanxious: Anxious in an excessive or needless degree.-- O"ver*anx"ious*ly, adv.
overbounteous: Bounteous to excess.
overcanopy: To cover as with a canopy. Shak.
overcapable: Too capable. [R.]Overcapable of such pleasing errors. Hooker.
overcautious: Too cautious; cautious or prudent to excess.-- O"ver*cau"tious*ly, adv.-- O"ver*cau"tiou*ness, n.
overcolor: To color too highly.
overcome: To gain the superiority; to be victorious. Rev. iii. 21.
overcunning: Exceedingly or excessively cunning.
overdue: Due and more than due; delayed beyond the proper time ofarrival or payment, etc.; as, an overdue vessel; an overdue note.
overexcite: To excite too much.
overflowing: An overflow; that which overflows; exuberance; copiousness.He was ready to bestow the overflowings of his full mind on anybodywho would start a subject. Macaulay.
overflutter: To flutter over.
overgreat: Too great.
overgreatness: Excessive greatness.
overharden: To harden too much; to make too hard. Boyle.
overhasty: Too hasty; precipitate; rash.-- O"ver*has"ti*ly, adv.-- O`ver*has"ti*ness, n.
overhent: To overtake. [Obs.]So forth he went and soon them overhent. Spenser.
overjump: To jump over; hence, to omit; to ignore. Marston.
overlate: Too late; exceedingly late.
overlayer: One who overlays; that with which anything is overlaid.
overload: To load or fill to excess; to load too heavily.
overlord: One who is lord over another or others; a superior lord; amaster. Freeman.
overloud: Too loud; noisy.
overmarch: To march too far, or too much; to exhaust by marching. Baker.
overmatch: One superior in power; also, an unequal match; a contest inwhich one of the opponents is overmatched. Milton. D. Webster.
overmeddling: Excessive interference. "Justly shent for their overmeddling."Fuller.
overmoisture: Excess of moisture.
overmount: To mount over; to go higher than; to rise above.
overneat: Excessively neat. Spectator.
overnice: Excessively nice; fastidious. Bp. Hall.-- O"ver*nice"ly, adv.-- O"ver*nice"ness, n.
overnumerous: Excessively numerous; too many.
overpass: To pass over, away, or off.
overpressure: Excessive pressure or urging. London Athenæum.
overproduction: Excessive production; supply beyond the demand. J. S. Mill.
overproportion: To make of too great proportion.
overrake: To rake over, or sweep across, from end to end, as waves thatbreak over a vessel anchored with head to the sea.
overreach: The act of striking the heel of the fore foot with the toe ofthe hind foot; -- said of horses.
overreckon: To reckon too highly.
overrigid: Too rigid; too severe.
overripe: Matured to excess. Milton.
overrunner: One that overruns. Lovelace.
overseership: The office of an overseer.
overshadower: One that throws a shade, or shadow, over anything. Bacon.
oversize: To surpass in size.
overskip: To skip or leap over; to treat with indifference. Shak.
overstatement: An exaggerated statement or account.
overstraw: To overstrew. [Obs.] Shak.
overtedious: Too tedious.
overtroubled: Excessively troubled.
overveil: To veil or cover. Shak.
overwalk: To walk over or upon.
overwell: To overflow. R. D. Blackmore.
overwrestle: To subdue by wrestling. [Obs.] Spenser.
ovicapsule: The outer layer of a Graafian follicle.
ovidian: Of or pertaining to the Latin poet Ovid; resembling the styleof Ovid.
ovulation: The formation of ova or eggs in the ovary, and the discharge ofthe same. In the mammalian female the discharge occurs duringmenstruation.
oxamethane: Ethyl oxamate, obtained as a white scaly crystalline powder.
oxamic: Pertaining to, or designating, an acid NH2.C2O2.HO obtained asa fine crystalline powder, intermediate between oxalic acid andoxamide. Its ammonium salt is obtained by boiling oxamide withammonia.
oxheart: A large heart-shaped cherry, either black, red, or white.
oxid: See Oxide.
oxidulated: Existing in the state of a protoxide; -- said of an oxide. [R.]
oxiodic: Pertaining to, or designating, certain compounds of iodine andoxygen.
oxonate: A salt of oxonic acid.
oxonian: Of or relating to the city or the university of Oxford,England. Macaulay.
oxyacetic: Hydroxyacetic; designating an acid called also glycolic acid.
oxyacid: An acid containing oxygen, as chloric acid or sulphuric acid; -- contrasted with the hydracids, which contain no oxygen, ashydrochloric acid. See Acid, and Hydroxy-.
oxycalcium: Of or pertaining to oxygen and calcium; as, the oxycalciumlight. See Drummond light.
oxymuriatic: Pertaining to, or consisting of, oxygen and muriatic acid, thatis, hydrochloric acid. [Archaic.] Oxymuriatic acid, chlorine,formerly so called on the supposition that it was a compound ofoxygen and muriatic acid. [Obs.]
oxytocic: Promoting uterine contractions, or parturition.-- n.
oxytoluene: One of three hydroxy derivatives of toluene, called thecresols. See Cresol.
ozone: A colorless gaseous substance (O
pachalic: See Pashalic.
pachyote: One of a family of bats, including those which have thickexternal ears.
pacifical: Of or pertaining to peace; pacific. [R.] Sir H. Wotton. --Pa*cif"ic*al*ly, adv. [R.]
pacifico: A peaceful person; -- applied specif. by the Spaniards to thenatives in Cuba and the Philippine Islands who did not oppose theSpanish arms.
pacify: To make to be at peace; to appease; to calm; to still; toquiet; to allay the agitation, excitement, or resentment of; totranquillize; as, to pacify a man when angry; to pacify pride,appetite, or importunity. "Pray ye, pacify yourself." Shak.
paction: An agreement; a compact; a bargain. [R.] Sir W. Scott.
pactolian: Pertaining to the Pactolus, a river in ancient Lydia famous forits golden sands.
pain: Specifically, the throes or travail of childbirth.She bowed herself and travailed, for her pains came upon her. 1 Sam.iv. 19.
painture: The art of painting. [Obs.] Chaucer. Dryden.
paise: See Poise. Chapman.
palampore: See Palempore.
palea: A pendulous process of the skin on the throat of a bird, as inthe turkey; a dewlap.
paleographer: One skilled in paleography; a paleographist.
palestra: Of or pertaining to the palestra, or to wrestling.
palish: Somewhat pale or wan.
pallah: A large South African antelope (Æpyceros melampus). The malehas long lyrate and annulated horns. The general color is bay, with ablack crescent on the croup. Called also roodebok.
palliatory: Palliative; extenuating.
palmigrade: Putting the whole foot upon the ground in walking, as somemammals.
palmister: One who practices palmistry Bp. Hall.
palola: An annelid (Palola viridis) which, at certain seasons of theyear, swarms at the surface of the sea about some of the PcificIslands, where it is collected for food.
palpitant: Palpitating; throbbing; trembling. Carlyle.
palterer: One who palters. Johnson.
paludamentum: Antiq.) A military cloak worn by a general and his principalofficers.
pampered: Fed luxuriously; indulged to the full; hence, luxuriant."Pampered boughs." Milton. "Pampered insolence." Pope.-- Pam"pered*ness, n. Bp. Hall.
pamperize: To pamper. [R.] Sydney Smith.
panache: A plume or bunch of feathers, esp. such a bunch worn on thehelmet; any military plume, or ornamental group of feathers.A panache of variegated plumes. Prescott.
panade: A dagger. [Obs.] Chaucer.
pancarte: A royal charter confirming to a subject all his possessions.[Obs.] Holinshed.
pancratium: An athletic contest involving both boxing and wrestling.
panda: A small Asiatic mammal (Ailurus fulgens) having fine soft fur.It is related to the bears, and inhabits the mountains of NorthernIndia.
pandarous: Panderous. [Obs.]
panderous: , Of or relating to a pander; characterizing a pander.
panier: See Pannier, 3. [Obs.]
panislamism: A desire or plan for the union of all Mohammedan nations forthe conquest of the world.
pannel: The stomach of a hawk. Ainsworth.
pannier: A shield of basket work formerly used by archers as a shelterfrom the enemy's missiles.
panorpian: Like, or pertaining to, the genus Panorpa.-- n.
panslavonian: See Panslavic.
panstereorama: A model of a town or country, in relief, executed in wood,cork, pasteboard, or the like. Brande & C.
pantamorphic: Taking all forms.
pantelegraph: See under Telegraph.
panter: One who pants. Congreve.
pantheress: A female panther.
pantometer: An instrument for measuring angles for determining elevations,distances, etc.
pantoscopic: Literally, seeing everything; -- a term applied to eyeglassesor spectacles divided into two segments, the upper being designed fordistant vision, the lower for vision of near objects.
panyard: See Pannier. [Obs.] Pepys.
pap: A nipple; a mammilla; a teat. Dryden.The paps which thou hast sucked. Luke xi. 27.
papagay: See Popinjay, 1 (b).
papalist: A papist. [Obs.] Baxter.
papaverine: An alkaloid found in opium. It has a weaker therapeutic actionthan morphine.
papaw: A tree (Carica Papaya) of tropical America, belonging to theorder Passifloreæ. It has a soft, spongy stem, eighteen or twentyfeet high, crowned with a tuft of large, long-stalked, palmatelylobed leaves. The milky juice of the plant is said to have theproperty of making meat tender. Also, its dull orange-colored, melon-shaped fruit, which is eaten both raw and cooked or pickled.
papescent: Containing or producing pap; like pap. [R.] Arbuthnot.
papion: A West African baboon (Cynocephalus sphinx), allied to thechacma. Its color is generally chestnut, varying in tint.
papyrean: Of or pertaining to papyrus, or to paper; papyraceous.
papyrography: The process of multiplying copies of writings, etc., by meansof the papyrograph.-- Pap`y*ro*graph"ic, a.
parablastic: Of or pertaining to the parablast; as, the parablastic cells.
parachordal: Situated on either side of the notochord; -- applied especiallyto the cartilaginous rudiments of the skull on each side of theanterior part of the notochord.-- n.
paracymene: Same as Cymene.
paradigmatize: To set forth as a model or example. [Obs.] Hammond.
paradisal: Paradisiacal.
paradise: An open space within a monastery or adjoining a church, as thespace within a cloister, the open court before a basilica, etc.
parakeet: Same as Parrakeet.
paraleipsis: A pretended or apparent omission; a figure by which a speakerartfully pretends to pass by what he really mentions; as, forexample, if an orator should say, "I do not speak of my adversary'sscandalous venality and rapacity, his brutal conduct, his treacheryand malice." [Written also paralepsis, paralepsy, paralipsis.]
paralipomenon: A title given in the Douay Bible to the Books of Chronicles.
paralyse: Same as Paralyze.
paramalic: Pertaining to, or designating, an organic acid metameric withmalic acid.
paramylum: A substance resembling starch, found in the green frothy scumformed on the surface of stagnant water.
paranoiac: Of or pertaining to paranoia; affected with, or characteristicof, paranoia.
paranucleus: Some as Nucleolus.
paraphrase: A restatement of a text, passage, or work, expressing themeaning of the original in another form, generally for the sake ofits clearer and fuller exposition; a setting forth the significationof a text in other and ampler terms; a free translation or rendering;-- opposed to metaphrase.In paraphrase, or translation with latitude, the author's words arenot so strictly followed as his sense. Dryden.Excellent paraphrases of the Psalms of David. I. Disraeli.His sermons a living paraphrase upon his practice. Sowth.The Targums are also called the Chaldaic or Aramaic Paraphrases.Shipley.
parapodium: One of the lateral appendages of an annelid; -- called alsofoot tubercle.
parapterum: A special plate situated on the sides of the mesothorax andmetathorax of certain insects.
parashoth: pl. of Parashah.
paraventure: Peradventure; perchance. [Obs.] Chaucer.
parcase: Perchance; by chance. [Obs.] Chaucer.
parchesi: See Pachisi.
pardoning: Relating to pardon; having or exercising the right to pardon;willing to pardon; merciful; as, the pardoning power; a pardoningGod.
parer: One who, or that which, pares; an instrument for paring.
pargeting: Plasterwork; esp.
parietary: See Parietal, 2.
parietine: A piece of a fallen wall; a ruin. [Obs.] Burton.
paris: A plant common in Europe (Paris quadrifolia); herb Paris;truelove. It has been used as a narcotic.
parishional: Of or pertaining to a parish; parochial. [R.] Bp. Hall.
parkeria: A genus of large arenaceous fossil Foraminifera found in theCretaceous rocks. The species are globular, or nearly so, and are ofall sizes up to that of a tennis ball.
parliamentarian: Of or pertaining to Parliament. Wood.
parlor: A room for business or social conversation, for the receptionof guests, etc. Specifically:(a) The apartment in a monastery or nunnery where the inmates arepermitted to meet and converse with each other, or with visitors andfriends from without. Piers Plowman.(b) In large private houses, a sitting room for the family and forfamiliar guests, -- a room for less formal uses than the drawing-room. Esp., in modern times, the dining room of a house having fewapartments, as a London house, where the dining parlor is usually onthe ground floor.(c) Commonly, in the United States, a drawing-room, or the room wherevisitors are received and entertained.
parnassien: Same as Parnassian.
parnellite: One of the adherents of Charles Stewart Parnell (1846-91) inhis advocacy of home rule for Ireland.
parodist: One who writes a parody; one who parodies. Coleridge.
paronymy: The quality of being paronymous; also, the use of paronymouswords.
parotoid: Resembling the parotid gland; -- applied especially tocutaneous glandular elevations above the ear in many toads and frogs.-- n.
paroxysmal: Of the nature of a paroxysm; characterized or accompanied byparoxysms; as, a paroxysmal pain; paroxysmal temper.-- Par`ox*ys"mal*ly, adv.
parsnip: The aromatic and edible spindle-shaped root of the cultivatedform of the Pastinaca sativa, a biennial umbelliferous plant which isvery poisonous in its wild state; also, the plant itself. Cowparsnip. See Cow parsnip.-- Meadow parsnip, the European cow parsnip.-- Poison parsnip, the wild stock of the parsnip.-- Water parsnip, any plant of the umbelliferous genus Sium, thespecies of which are poisonous.
parson: A person who represents a parish in its ecclesiastical andcorporate capacities; hence, the rector or incumbent of a parochialchurch, who has full possession of all the rights thereof, with thecure of souls.
partheniad: A poem in honor of a virgin. [Obs.]
parthenogenesis: The production of new individuals from virgin females by meansof ova which have the power of developing without the intervention ofthe male element; the production, without fertilization, of cellscapable of germination. It is one of the phenomena of alternategeneration. Cf. Heterogamy, and Metagenesis.
parthenon: A celebrated marble temple of Athene, on the Acropolis atAthens. It was of the pure Doric order, and has had an importantinfluence on art.
participantly: In a participant manner.
participative: Capable of participating.
parturious: Parturient. [Obs.] Drayton.
parvoline: A liquid base, C
passeriform: Like or belonging to the Passeres.
passion: To give a passionate character to. [R.] Keats.
passymeasure: See Paspy. Shak.
pastel: A plant affording a blue dye; the woad (Isatis tinctoria);also, the dye itself.
pasteurian: Of or pertaining to Pasteur.
pasticcio: A small cone or mass made of paste of gum, benzoin, cinnamon,and other aromatics, -- used for fumigating or scenting the air of aroom.
pastorship: Pastorate. Bp. Bull.
patamar: A vessel resembling a grab, used in the coasting trade ofBombay and Ceylon. [Written also pattemar.]
patellar: Of or pertaining to the patella, or kneepan.
paternalism: The theory or practice of paternal government. See Paternalgovernment, under Paternal. London Times.
pathfinder: One who discovers a way or path; one who explores untraversedregions.The cow is the true pathfinder and pathmaker. J. Burroughs.
pathology: The science which treats of diseases, their nature, causes,progress, symptoms, etc.
patly: Fitly; seasonably. Barrow.
patrician: Of or pertaining to the Roman patres (fathers) or senators, orpatricians.
patripassian: One of a body of believers in the early church who denied theindependent preëxistent personality of Christ, and who, accordingly,held that the Father suffered in the Son; a monarchian.-- Pa`tri*pas"sian*ism, n.
patristics: That departnent of historical theology which treats of thelives and doctrines of the Fathers of the church.
patrolman: One who patrols; a watchman; especially, a policeman whopatrols a particular precinct of a town or city.
patronal: Patron; protecting; favoring. [R.] Sir T. Browne.
patroness: A female patron or helper. Spenser.Night, best patroness of grief. Milton.
patronymical: Same as Patronymic.
pauperism: The state of being a pauper; the state of indigent personsrequiring support from the community. Whatly.
pauperize: To reduce to pauperism; as, to pauperize the peasantry.
pauropoda: An order of small myriapods having only nine pairs of legs anddestitute of tracheæ.
pavier: A paver.
payn: Bread. Having Piers Plowman.
peacemaker: One who makes peace by reconciling parties that are atvariance. Matt. v. 9. --Peace"mak`ing, n.
pearlaceous: Resembling pearl or mother-of-pearl; pearly in quality orappearance.
peat: A small person; a pet; -- sometimes used contemptuously. [Obs.]Shak.
peccant: An offender. [Obs.] Whitlock.
peccantly: In a peccant manner.
pectoriloquial: Pertaining to, or of the nature of, pectoriloquy.
peculator: One who peculates. "Peculators of the public gold." Cowper.
pedagogics: The science or art of teaching; the principles and rules ofteaching; pedagogy.
pedantocracy: The sway of pedants. [R.] J. S. Mill.
pederastic: Of or pertaining to pederasty.
pedestal: The base or foot of a column, statue, vase, lamp, or the like;the part on which an upright work stands. It consists of three parts,the base, the die or dado, and the cornice or surbase molding. SeeIllust. of Column.Build him a pedestal, and say, "Stand there!" Cowper.
pedicel: A slender stem by which certain of the lower animals or theireggs are attached. See Illust. of Aphis lion.
pediceled: Pedicellate.
pedicellate: Having a pedicel; supported by a pedicel.
pedicle: Same as Pedicel.
pedobaptist: One who advocates or practices infant baptism. [Written alsopædobaptist.]
pedograph: An instrument carried by a pedestrian for automatically makinga topographical record of the ground covered during a journey.
pedology: Pediatrics.
pedomotive: Moved or worked by the action of the foot or feet on a pedal ortreadle.
peerweet: Same as Pewit (a & b).
pelargonic: Pertaining to, or designating, an organic acid (called alsononoic acid) found in the leaves of the geranium (Pelargonium) andallied plants.
pelecan: See Pelican.
pellile: The redshank; -- so called from its note. [Prov. Eng.]
pelma: The under surface of the foot.
pelopium: A supposed new metal found in columbite, afterwards shown to beidentical with columbium, or niobium.
peloric: Abnormally regular or symmetrical. Darwin.
pelter: One who pelts.
peltry: Pelts or skins, collectively; skins with the fur on them; furs.
pelvis: The pelvic arch, or the pelvic arch together with the sacrum.See Pelvic arch, under Pelvic, and Sacrum.
pencel: A small, narrow flag or streamer borne at the top of a lance; -- called also pennoncel. [Obs.] Piers Plowman. Chaucer.
pendence: Slope; inclination. [Obs.] Sir H. Wotton.
pendicler: An inferior tenant; one who rents a pendicle or croft. [Scot.]Jamieson.
pending: Not yet decided; in continuance; in suspense; as, a pendingsuit.
pendule: A pendulum. [R.] Evelyn.
penduline: A European titmouse (Parus, or Ægithalus, pendulinus). It isnoted for its elegant pendulous purselike nest, made of the down ofwillow trees and lined with feathers.
penelope: A genus of curassows, including the guans.
penetrativeness: The quality of being penetrative.
pennached: Variegated; striped. [Obs.] Evelyn.
pennywort: A European trailing herb (Linaria Cymbalaria) with roundish,reniform leaves. It is often cultivated in hanging baskets. March, orWater, pennywort. (Bot.) See under March.
penrack: A rack for pens not in use.
pensively: In a pensive manner.
pentachenium: A dry fruit composed of five carpels, which are covered by anepigynous calyx and separate at maturity.
pentachloride: A chloride having five atoms of chlorine in each molecule.
pentacid: Capable of neutralizing, or combining with, five molecules of amonobasic acid; having five hydrogen atoms capable of substitution byacid residues; -- said of certain complex bases.
pentacrinoid: An immature comatula when it is still attached by a stem, andthus resembles a Pentacrinus.
pentadactyloid: Having the form of, or a structure modified from, a pentadactyllimb.
pentaglot: A work in five different tongues.
pentamerous: Divided into, or consisting of, five parts; also, arranged insets, with five parts in each set, as a flower with five sepals, fivepetals, five, or twice five, stamens, and five pistils.
pentamethylene: A hypothetical hydrocarbon, C5H10, metameric with the amylenes,and the nucleus of a large number of derivatives; -- so named becauseregarded as composed of five methylene residues. Cf. Trimethylene,and Tetramethylene.
pentane: Any one of the three metameric hydrocarbons, C5H12, of themethane or paraffin series. They are colorless, volatile liquids, twoof which occur in petroleum. So called because of the five carbonatoms in the molecule.
pentaspast: A purchase with five pulleys. [R.]
pentateuchal: Of or pertaining to the Pentateuch.
pentecoster: An officer in the Spartan army commanding fifty men. Mitford.
pentecosty: A troop of fifty soldiers in the Spartan army; -- called alsopentecostys. Jowett (Thucyd. ).
pentoxide: An oxide containing five atoms of oxygen in each molecule; as,phosphorus pentoxide, P2O5.
peoplish: Vulgar. [Obs.] Chaucer.
pepperer: A grocer; -- formerly so called because he sold pepper. [Obs.]
peptonoid: A substance related to peptone.
percaline: A fine kind of French cotton goods, usually of one color.
percarburet: A percarbide. [Obsoles.]
percase: Perhaps; perchance. [Obs.] Bacon.
percentage: A certain rate per cent; the allowance, duty, rate of interest,discount, or commission, on a hundred.
perceptivity: The quality or state of being perceptive; power of perception.Locke.
perchromic: Pertaining to, or designating, a certain one of the highlyoxidized compounds of chromium, which has a deep blue color, and isproduced by the action of hydrogen peroxide.
percoidea: Same as Perciformes.
percuss: To strike smartly; to strike upon or against; as, to percussthe chest in medical examination.Flame percussed by air giveth a noise. Bacon.
percussive: Striking against; percutient; as, percussive force.
perdie: See Parde. Spenser.
perdifoil: A deciduous plant; -- opposed to Ant
perdurable: Very durable; lasting; continuing long. [Archaic] Chaucer.Shak.-- Per*dur"a*bly, adv. [Archaic]
perennibranchiata: Those Batrachia which retain their gills through life, as themenobranchus.
perfectible: Capable of becoming, or being made, perfect.
perflable: Capable of being blown through. [Obs.]
perfricate: To rub over. Bailey.
perfuse: To suffuse; to fill full or to excess. Harvey.
periauger: See Pirogue. W. Irving.
perichordal: Around the notochord; as, a perichordal column. See Epichordal.
perigynium: Some unusual appendage about the pistil, as the bottle-shapedbody in the sedges, and the bristles or scales in some other generaof the Sedge family, or Cyperaceæ.
periodontal: Surrounding the teeth.
peripteral: Having columns on all sides; -- said of an edifice. SeeApteral.
peripterous: Peripteral.
perithecium: An organ in certain fungi and lichens, surrounding andenveloping the masses of fructification. Henslow.
perjury: At common law, a willfully false statement in a fact materialto the issue, made by a witness under oath in a competent judicialproceeding. By statute the penalties of perjury are imposed on themaking of willfully false affirmations.
permanent: Continuing in the same state, or without any change thatdestroys form or character; remaining unaltered or unremoved;abiding; durable; fixed; stable; lasting; as, a permanent impression.Eternity stands permanent and fixed. Dryden.Permanent gases (Chem. & Physics), hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, andcarbon monoxide; -- also called incondensible or incoercible gases,before their liquefaction in 1877.-- Permanent way, the roadbed and superstructure of a finishedrailway; -- so called in distinction from the contractor's temporaryway.-- Permanent white (Chem.), barium sulphate (heavy spar), used as awhite pigment or paint, in distinction from white lead, whichtarnishes and darkens from the formation of the sulphide.
permeable: Capable of being permeated, or passed through; yieldingpassage; passable; penetrable; -- used especially of substances whichallow the passage of fluids; as, wood is permeable to oil; glass ispermeable to light. I. Taylor.
permeant: Passing through; permeating. [R.] Sir T. Browne.
permissible: That may be permitted; allowable; admissible.-- Per*mis"si*ble*ness, n.-- Per*mis"si*bly, adv.
pernancy: A taking or reception, as the receiving of rents or tithes inkind, the receiving of profits. Blackstone.
pernoctalian: One who watches or keeps awake all night.
peroneal: Of or pertaining to the fibula; in the region of the fibula.
perorate: To make a peroration; to harangue. [Colloq.]
perpendicle: Something hanging straight down; a plumb line. [Obs.]
perpendicularity: The quality or state of being perpendicular.
perpensity: Perpension. [Obs.]
perpession: Suffering; endurance. [Obs.] Bp. Pearson.
persecot: See Persicot.
persicaria: See Lady's thumb.
personation: The act of personating, or conterfeiting the person orcharacter of another.
perspicience: The act of looking sharply. [Obs.] Bailey.
perthiocyanogen: Same as Persulphocyanogen.
pertransient: Passing through or over. [R.]
pertusion: The act of punching or piercing with a pointed instrument; as,pertusion of a vein. [R.] Arbuthnot.
perversedly: Perversely. [Obs.]
pervigilation: Careful watching. [Obs.]
pervis: See Parvis.
pery: A pear tree. See Pirie. [Obs.]
pesane: See Pusane.
pesky: Pestering; vexatious; troublesome. Used also as an intensive.[Colloq. & Low, U.S.] Judd.
pessimist: One who advocates the doctrine of pessimism; -- opposed to Ant:optimist.
pessimistical: Pessimistic.
pet: A slight fit of peevishness or fretfulness. "In a pet shestarted up." Tennyson.
petaloid: Petaline.
petard: A case containing powder to be exploded, esp. a conical orcylindrical case of metal filled with powder and attached to a plank,to be exploded against and break down gates, barricades, drawbridges,etc. It has been superseded.
petitor: One who seeks or asks; a seeker; an applicant. [R.] Fuller.
petrary: An ancient war engine for hurling stones.
petre: See Saltpeter.
petroglyphy: The art or operation of carving figures or inscriptions on rockor stone.
petrosilex: Felsite.
pettifogulize: To act as a pettifogger; to use contemptible tricks. DeQuincey.
pettily: In a petty manner; frivolously.
pettish: Fretful; peevish; moody; capricious; inclined to ill temper. "Apettish kind of humor." Sterne.-- Pet"tish*ly, adv.-- Pet"tish*ness, n.
petune: To spray (tobacco) with a liquid intended to produce flavor oraroma.
petunia: A genus of solanaceous herbs with funnelform or salver-shapedcorollas. Two species are common in cultivation, Petunia violacera,with reddish purple flowers, and P. nyctaginiflora, with whiteflowers. There are also many hybrid forms with variegated corollas.
phacochere: The wart hog.
phaenogamia: The class of flowering plants including all which have trueflowers with distinct floral organs; phanerogamia.
phanerocarpae: Same as Acraspeda.
phanerogamian: Phanerogamous.
phantasmatical: Phantasmal. Dr. H. More.
pharmacodymanics: That branch of pharmacology which treats of the action and theeffects of medicines.
pharmacognosis: That branch of pharmacology which treats of unpreparedmedicines or simples; -- called also pharmacography, andpharmacomathy.
pharmacologist: One skilled in pharmacology.
pharyngobranchial: Of or pertaining to the pharynx and the branchiæ; -- appliedespecially to the dorsal elements in the branchial arches of fishes.See Pharyngeal.-- n.
pharyngognathi: A division of fishes in which the lower pharyngeal bones areunited. It includes the scaroid, labroid, and embioticoid fishes.
pharyngotome: An instrument for incising or scarifying the tonsils, etc.
phase: A particular appearance or state in a regularly recurring cycleof changes with respect to quantity of illumination or form ofenlightened disk; as, the phases of the moon or planets. See Illust.under Moon.
phenomenist: One who believes in the theory of phenomenalism.
phenyl: A hydrocarbon radical (C6H5) regarded as the essential residueof benzene, and the basis of an immense number of aromaticderivatives. Phenyl hydrate (Chem.), phenol or carbolic acid.-- Phenyl hydrazine (Chem.), a nitrogenous base (C6H5.N2H3) producedartificially as a colorless oil which unites with acids, ketones,etc., to form well-crystallized compounds.
phenylene: A hypothetic radical (C6H4) occurring in certain derivatives ofbenzene; as, phenylene diamine.
philanthropinism: A system of education on so-called natural principles,attempted in Germany in the last century by Basedow, of Dessau.
philologer: A philologist. Burton.
philomathematic: A philomath.
philosophaster: A pretender to philosophy. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.
philosophate: To play the philosopher; to moralize. [Obs.] Barrow.
philostorgy: Natural affection, as of parents for their children. [R.]
phiz: The face or visage. [Colloq.] Cowper.
phlegmasia: An inflammation; more particularly, an inflammation of theinternal organs. Phlegmasia dolens ( Etym
phlogistical: Phlogistic.
phoebus: Apollo; the sun god.
phonocamptic: Reflecting sound. [R.] "Phonocamptic objects." Derham.
phonographically: In a phonographic manner; by means of phonograph.
phonotype: A type or character used in phonotypy.
phonotypy: A method of phonetic printing of the English language, asdevised by Mr. Pitman, in which nearly all the ordinary letters andmany new forms are employed in order to indicate each elementarysound by a separate character.
phosphureted: Impregnated, or combined, with phosphorus. [Obsoles.] [Writtenalso phosphuretted.] Phosphureted hydrogen. (Chem.) See Phosphine.
photochromotypy: The art of making photochromotypes.
photogram: A photograph. [R.]
photoluminescent: Luminescent by exposure to light waves. --Pho`to*lu`mi*nes"cence (#), n.
photophilous: Light-loving; growing in strong light, as many plants.
photospheric: Of or pertaining to the photosphere.
phototelegraphy: Telegraphy by means of light, as by the heliograph or thephotophone. Also, less properly, telephotography. --Pho`to*tel"e*graph (#), n. --Pho`to*tel`e*graph"ic (#), a.
phototype: A plate or block with a printing surface (usually in relief)obtained from a photograph; also, any one of the many methods ofprocesses by which such a printing surface is obtained.
phototypy: The art or process of producing phototypes.
phrenologic: Phrenological.
phrentic: See Phrenetic. [Obs.]
phthalein: One of a series of artificial organic dyes made as condensationproducts of the phenols with phthalic acid, and well represented byphenol phthaleïn. Their alkaline solutions are fluorescent. Phenolphthalein, a white or yellowish white crystalline substance made fromphthalic acid and phenol. Its solution in alkalies is brilliant red,but is decolorized by acids, and as this reaction is exceedinglydelicate it is used as an indicator.
phthalic: Pertaining to, or designating, a dibasic acid obtained by theoxidation of naphthalene and allied substances. Phthalic acid(Chem.), a white crystalline substance, C6H4.(CO2H)2, analogous tobenzoic acid, and employed in the brilliant dyestuffs called thephthaleins.
phycophaeine: A brown coloring matter found in certain algæ.
phylactocarp: A branch of a plumularian hydroid specially modified instructure for the protection of the gonothecæ.
phylactolaematous: Of or pertaining to the Phylactolæma.
phyllorhine: Of or pertaining to Phyllorhina and other related genera ofbats that have a leaflike membrane around the nostrils.
phylloxanthin: A yellow coloring matter extracted from chlorophyll.
physicianed: Licensed as a physician. [Obs.] "A physicianed apothecary."Walpole.
physicism: The tendency of the mind toward, or its preoccupation with,physical phenomena; materialism in philosophy and religion.Anthropomorphism grows into theology, while physicism (if I may socall it) develops into science. Huxley.
physiognomer: Physiognomist.
physiognomist: Same as Physiognomy, 1.
physiological: Of or pertaining to physiology; relating to the science of thefunctions of living organism; as, physiological botany or chemistry.
physique: The natural constitution, or physical structure, of a person.With his white hair and splendid physique. Mrs. Stowe.
physopoda: Same as Thysanoptera.
phytotomy: The dissection of plants; vegetable anatomy.
pial: Pertaining to the pia mater.
picayunish: Petty; paltry; mean; as, a picayunish business. [Colloq. U.S.]
piceous: Of or pertaining to pitch; resembling pitch in color orquality; pitchy.
pickback: On the back.
pickeerer: One who pickeers. [Obs.]
picking: The pulverized shells of oysters used in making walks. [Eng.]Simmonds.
picknick: See Picnic.
picryl: The hypothetical radical of picric acid, analogous to phenyl.
pie: The service book.
piercel: A kind of gimlet for making vents in casks; -- called alsopiercer.
piewipe: The lapwing, or pewit. [Prov. Eng.]
pigmean: See Pygmean.
pigmented: Colored; specifically (Biol.), filled or imbued with pigment;as, pigmented epithelial cells; pigmented granules.
pikrolite: See Picrolite.
pilcrow: a paragraph mark, . [Obs.] Tusser.
pileiform: Having the form of a pileus or cap; pileate.
piles: The small, troublesome tumors or swellings about the anus andlower part of the rectum which are technically called hemorrhoids.See Hemorrhoids.
pilferer: One who pilfers; a petty thief.
pilidium: The free-swimming, hat-shaped larva of certain nemertean worms.It has no resemblance to its parent, and the young worm develops inits interior.
pilifera: Same as Mammalia.
pillar: A portable ornamental column, formerly carried before acardinal, as emblematic of his support to the church. [Obs.] Skelton.
pillarist: See Stylite.
pillion: A panel or cushion saddle; the under pad or cushion of saddle;esp., a pad or cushion put on behind a man's saddle, on which a womanmay ride.His [a soldier's] shank pillion without stirrups. Spenser.
pillowed: Provided with a pillow or pillows; having the head resting on,or as on, a pillow.Pillowedon buckler cold and hard. Sir W. Scott.
pillworm: Any myriapod of the genus Iulus and allied genera which rollsup spirally; a galleyworm. See Illust. under Myriapod.
pimaric: Pertaining to, or designating, an acid found in galipot, andisomeric with abietic acid.
pimpship: The office, occupation, or persom of a pimp. [R.]
pinching: Compressing; nipping; griping; niggardly; as, pinching cold; apinching parsimony. Pinching bar, a pinch bar. See Pinch, n., 4.-- Pinching nut, a check nut. See under Check, n.
pineapple: A tropical plant (Ananassa sativa); also, its fruit; -- socalled from the resemblance of the latter, in shape and externalappearance, to the cone of the pine tree. Its origin is unknown,though conjectured to be American.
pinedrops: A reddish herb (Pterospora andromedea) of the United States,found parasitic on the roots of pine trees.
pinguefaction: A making of, or turning into, fat.
pinhold: A place where a pin is fixed.
pinked: Pierced with small holes; worked in eyelets; scalloped on theedge. Shak.
pinnately: In a pinnate manner.
pinnatifid: Divided in a pinnate manner, with the divisions not reaching tothe midrib.
pinnipedes: Same as Steganopodes.
pinocle: See Penuchle.
pinus: A large genus of evergreen coniferous trees, mostly found inthe northern hemisphere. The genus formerly included the firs,spruces, larches, and hemlocks, but is now limited to those treeswhich have the primary leaves of the branchlets reduced to merescales, and the secondary ones (pine needles) acicular, and usuallyin fascicles of two to seven. See Pine.
pipa: The Surinam toad (Pipa Americana), noted for its peculiarbreeding habits.
piperaceous: Of or pertaining to the order of plants (Piperaceæ) of whichthe pepper (Piper nigrum) is the type. There are about a dozen generaand a thousand species, mostly tropical plants with pungent andaromatic qualities.
pipevine: The Dutchman's pipe. See under Dutchman.
pipewood: An ericaceous shrub (Leucothoë acuminata) of the southernUnited States, from the wood of which pipe bowls are made.
piqueer: See Pickeer. [R.]
piratic: Piratical.
piratical: Of or pertaining to a pirate; acquired by, or practicing,piracy; as, a piratical undertaking. "Piratical printers." Pope.-- Pi*rat"ic*al*ly, adv.
pisasphaltum: See Pissasphalt.
piscary: The right or privilege of fishing in another man's waters.Blackstone.
piscicapture: Capture of fishes, as by angling. [R.] W. H. Russell.
piscine: Of or pertaining to a fish or fishes; as, piscine remains.
piss: To discharge urine, to urinate. Shak.
pistache: The anacardiaceous tree Pistacia vera, which yields thepistachio nut; also, the nut itself and the flavoring extractprepared from it.
pistic: Pure; genuine. [R.] Jer. Taylor.
pistillaceous: Growing on, or having nature of, the pistil; of or pertainingto a pistil. Barton.
pistillate: Having a pistil or pistils; -- usually said of flowers havingpistils but no stamens.
pitch: See Pitchstone. Amboyna pitch, the resin of Dammara australis.See Kauri.-- Burgundy pitch. See under Burgundy.-- Canada pitch, the resinous exudation of the hemlock tree (AbiesCanadensis); hemlock gum.-- Jew's pitch, bitumen.-- Mineral pitch. See Bitumen and Asphalt.-- Pitch coal (Min.), bituminous coal.-- Pitch peat (Min.), a black homogeneous peat, with a waxy luster.-- Pitch pine (Bot.), any one of several species of pine, yieldingpitch, esp. the Pinus rigida of North America.
pithiness: The quality or state of being pithy.
pity: To be compassionate; to show pity.I will not pity, nor spare, nor have mercy. Jer. xiii. 14.
placable: Capable of being appeased or pacified; ready or willing to bepacified; willing to forgive or condone.Methought I saw him placable and mild. Milton.
placableness: The quality of being placable.
placentious: Pleasing; amiable. [Obs.] "A placentious person." Fuller.
placidness: The quality or state of being placid.
placoganoid: Pertaining to the Placoganoidei.
placoganoidei: A division of ganoid fishes including those that have largeexternal bony plates and a cartilaginous skeleton.
plagiocephaly: Oblique lateral deformity of the skull.
plain: To lament; to bewail; to complain. [Archaic & Poetic] Milton.We with piteous heart unto you pleyne. Chaucer.
plainant: One who makes complaint; the plaintiff. [Obs.]
plaint: A private memorial tendered to a court, in which a person setsforth his cause of action; the exhibiting of an action in writing.Blackstone.
planifolious: Flat-leaved.
planish: To make smooth or plane, as a metallic surface; to condense,toughen, and polish by light blows with a hammer.
planispheric: Of or pertaining to a planisphere.
planogamete: One of the motile ciliated gametes, or zoögametes, found inisogamous plants, as many green algæ (Chlorophyceæ).
plantage: A word used once by Shakespeare to designate plants in general,or anything that is planted.As true as steel, as plantage to the moon. Shak. (Troil. iii. sc. 2).
plantule: The embryo which has begun its development in the act ofgermination.
platel: A small dish.
plateresque: Resembling silver plate; -- said of certain architecturalornaments.
platetrope: One of a pair of a paired organs.
platin: See Platen.
platinic: Of, pertaining to, or containing, platinum; -- usedspecifically to designate those compounds in which the element has ahigher valence, as contrasted with the platinous compounds; as,platinic chloride (PtCl4).
platitudinize: To utter platitudes or truisms.
platitudinous: Abounding in platitudes; of the nature of platitudes; utteringplatitudes.-- Plat`i*tu"di*nous*ness, n.
platymeter: An apparatus for measuring the capacity of condensers, or theinductive capacity of dielectrics.
platyrhini: A division of monkeys, including the American species, whichhave a broad nasal septum, thirty-six teeth, and usually a prehensiletail. See Monkey. [Written also Platyrrhini.]
playa: A beach; a strand; in the plains and deserts of Texas, NewMexico, and Arizona, a broad, level spot, on which subsequentlybecomes dry by evaporation. Bartlett.
playground: A piece of ground used for recreation; as, the playground of aschool.
playtime: Time for play or diversion.
playwriter: A writer of plays; a dramatist; a playwright. Lecky.
pleaser: One who pleases or gratifies.
plebicolist: One who flatters, or courts the favor of, the common people; ademagogue. [R.]
pledgery: A pledging; suretyship. [Obs.]
pledget: A string of oakum used in calking.
pleiophyllous: Having several leaves; -- used especially when several leavesor leaflets appear where normally there should be only one.
plene: Full; complete; plenary. [Obs.]
pleonaste: A black variety of spinel.
pleonastically: In a pleonastic manner.
plessimeter: See Pleximeter.
plexus: A network of vessels, nerves, or fibers.
pliancy: The quality or state of being pliant in sense; as, the pliancyof a rod. "Avaunt all specious pliancy of mind." Wordsworth.
pliers: A kind of small pinchers with long jaws, -- used for bending orcutting metal rods or wire, for handling small objects such as theparts of a watch, etc.
ploc: A mixture of hair and tar for covering the bottom of a ship.
plodding: Progressing in a slow, toilsome manner; characterized bylaborious diligence; as, a plodding peddler; a plodding student; aman of plodding habits. --Plod"ding*ly, adv.
plop: To fall, drop, or move in any way, with a sudden splash orslap, as on the surface of water.
plumeless: Without plumes.
plumiliform: Having the of a plume or feather. [R.]
plumularian: Any Plumularia. Also used adjectively.
plutarchy: Plutocracy; the rule of wealth. [R.]
plutocrat: One whose wealth gives him power or influence; one of theplutocracy.
plutology: The science which treats of wealth.
pluvioscope: A rain gauge.
pneumatometry: See Spirometry.
pocketful: As much as a pocket will hold; enough to fill a pocket; as,pocketfuls of chestnuts.
poco: A little; -- used chiefly in phrases indicating the time ormovement; as, poco più allegro, a little faster; poco largo, ratherslow. Poco a poco Etym
pococurante: A careless person; a trifler. [R.]
podobranch: One of branchiæ attached to the bases of the legs in Crustacea.
podophyllous: Having thin, flat, leaflike locomotive organs.
podostomata: An order of Bryozoa of which Rhabdopleura is the type. SeeRhabdopleura.
poetry: An angle in the south transept of Westminster Abbey, London; --so called because it contains the tombs of Chaucer, Spenser, Dryden,Ben Jonson, Gray, Tennyson, Browning, and other English poets, andmemorials to many buried elsewhere.
pointal: The pistil of a plant.
pointlessly: Without point.
poise: To hang in equilibrium; to be balanced or suspended; hence, tobe in suspense or doubt.The slender, graceful spars Poise aloft in air. Longfellow.
poke: A large North American herb of the genus Phytolacca (P.decandra), bearing dark purple juicy berries; -- called also garget,pigeon berry, pocan, and pokeweed. The root and berries have emeticand purgative properties, and are used in medicine. The young shootsare sometimes eaten as a substitute for asparagus, and the berriesare said to be used in Europe to color wine.
polariscopic: Of or pertaining to the polariscope; obtained by the use of apolariscope; as, polariscopic observations.
polatouche: A flying squirrel (Sciuropterus volans) native of NorthernEurope and Siberia; -- called also minene.
polite: To polish; to refine; to render polite. [Obs.] Ray.
politesse: Politeness.
poll: A parrot; -- familiarly so called.
pollen: The fecundating dustlike cells of the anthers of flowers. SeeFlower, and Illust. of Filament. Pollen grain (Bot.), a particle orcall of pollen.-- Pollen mass, a pollinium. Gray.-- Pollen sac, a compartment of an anther containing pollen, --usually there are four in each anther.-- Pollen tube, a slender tube which issues from the pollen grain onits contact with the stigma, which it penetrates, thus conveying, itis supposed, the fecundating matter of the grain to the ovule.
polluting: Adapted or tending to pollute; causing defilement or pollution.-- Pol*lut"ing*ly, adv.
polonese: See Polonaise.
poltroonish: Resembling a poltroon; cowardly.
polyactinia: An old name for those Anthozoa which, like the actinias, havenumerous simple tentacles.
polyandric: Pertaining to, or characterized by, polyandry; mating withseveral males. "Polyandric societies." H. Spencer.
polybranchia: A division of Nudibranchiata including those which havenumerous branchiæ on the back.
polycarpellary: Composed of several or numerous carpels; -- said of such fruitsas the orange.
polychrest: A medicine that serves for many uses, or that cures manydiseases. [Obs.] Polychrest salt (Old Med. Chem.), potassiumsulphate, specifically obtained by fusing niter with sulphur.
polychroism: Same as Pleochroism.
polygony: Any plant of the genus Polygonum.
polymyodous: Polymyoid.
polypean: Of or pertaining to a polyp, or polyps.
polyperythrin: A coloring matter found in many simple Anthozoa and somehydroids.
polyphase: Having or producing two or more phases; multiphase; as, apolyphase machine, a machine producing two or more pressure waves ofelectro-motive force, differing in phase; a polyphase current.
polyphaser: A machine generating more than one pressure wave; amultiphaser.
polyphonist: A master of polyphony; a contrapuntist.
polyphony: Composition in mutually related, equally important parts whichshare the melody among them; contrapuntal composition; -- opposed tohomophony, in which the melody is given to one part only, the othersfilling out the harmony. See Counterpoint.
polypiparous: Producing polyps.
polypomedusae: Same as Hydrozoa.
polypterus: An African genus of ganoid fishes including the bichir.
polyspast: A machine consisting of many pulleys; specifically, anapparatus formerly used for reducing luxations.
polyspermy: Fullness of sperm, or seed; the passage of more than onespermatozoön into the vitellus in the impregnation of the ovum.
polysulphide: A sulphide having more than one atom of sulphur in themolecule; -- contrasted with monosulphide.
polysyndeton: A figure by which the conjunction is often repeated, as in thesentence, "We have ships and men and money and stores." Opposed toasyndeton.
polytechnics: The science of the mechanic arts.
polytomy: A division into many members. F. Bowen.
pomatum: A perfumed unguent or composition, chiefly used in dressing thehair; pomade. Wiseman.
pomelo: A variety of shaddock, called also grape fruit.
pomey: A figure supposed to resemble an apple; a roundel, -- always ofa green color.
pomposo: Grand and dignified; in grand style.
pomptine: See Pontine.
ponderability: The quality or state of being ponderable.
ponderal: Estimated or ascertained by weight; -- distinguished fromnumeral; as, a ponderal drachma. [R.] Arbuthnot.
poorliness: The quality or state of being poorly; ill health.
popliteal: Of or pertaining to the ham; in the region of the ham, orbehind the knee joint; as, the popliteal space.
popper: A utensil for popping corn, usually a wire basket with a longhandle.
populate: Populous. [Obs.] Bacon.
populosity: Populousness.[Obs.]
porbeagle: A species of shark (Lamna cornubica), about eight feet long,having a pointed nose and a crescent-shaped tail; -- called alsomackerel shark. [Written also probeagle.]
porcate: Having grooves or furrows broader than the intervening ridges;furrowed.
porcelanite: A semivitrified clay or shale, somewhat resembling jasper; --called also porcelain jasper.
porcine: Of or pertaining to swine; characteristic of the hog. "Porcinecheeks." G. Eliot.
poreblind: Nearsighted; shortsighted; purblind. [Obs.] Bacon.
porime: A theorem or proposition so easy of demonstration as to bealmost self-evident. [R.] Crabb.
pork: The flesh of swine, fresh or salted, used for food.
porphyritic: Relating to, or resembling, porphyry, that is, characterized bythe presence of distinct crystals, as of feldspar, quartz, or augite,in a relatively fine-grained base, often aphanitic orcryptocrystalline.
portableness: The quality or state of being portable; portability.
portcullis: A grating of iron or of timbers pointed with iron, hung overthe gateway of a fortress, to be let down to prevent the entrance ofan enemy. "Let the portcullis fall." Sir W. Scott.She . . . the huge portcullis high updrew. Milton.
portemonnaie: A small pocketbook or wallet for carrying money.
porteress: See Portress.
portigue: See Portague. Beau. & Fl.
portionless: Having no portion.
portmote: In old English law, a court, or mote, held in a port town.[Obs.] Blackstone.
possum: An opossum. [Colloq. U. S.] To play possum, To act possum, tofeign ignorance, indifference or inattention, with the intent todeceive; to dissemble; -- in allusion to the habit of the opossum,which feigns death when attacked or alarmed.
postfact: Relating to a fact that occurs after another.
postfix: A letter, syllable, or word, added to the end of another word;a suffix. Parkhurst.
postfrontal: Situated behind the frontal bone or the frontal region of theskull; -- applied especially to a bone back of and below the frontalin many animals.-- n.
postgraduate: Of, pertaining to, or designating, the studies pursued aftergraduation, esp., after receiving the bachelor's degree at a college;graduate. -- n.
postil: A short homily or commentary on a passage of Scripture; as, thefirst postils were composed by order of Charlemagne.
postremogeniture: The right of the youngest born. Mozley & W.
postrider: One who rides over a post road to carry the mails. Bancroft.
postulatory: Of the nature of a postulate. Sir T. Browne.
potboy: A boy who carries pots of ale, beer, etc.; a menial in a publichouse.
poteen: Whisky; especially, whisky illicitly distilled by the Irishpeasantry. [Written also potheen, and potteen.]
pothecary: An apothecary. [Obs.]
potheen: See Poteen.
pott: A size of paper. See under Paper.
potter: The red-bellied terrapin. See Terrapin. Potter's asthma (Med.),emphysema of the lungs; -- so called because very prevalent amongpotters. Parkers.-- Potter's clay. See under Clay.-- Potter's field, a public burial place, especially in a city, forpaupers, unknown persons, and criminals; -- so named from the fieldsouth of Jerusalem, mentioned in Matt. xxvii. 7.-- Potter's ore. See Alquifou.-- Potter's wheel, a horizontal revolving disk on which the clay ismolded into form with the hands or tools. "My thoughts are whirledlike a potter's wheel." Shak. Potter wasp (Zoöl.), a small solitarywasp (Eumenes fraternal) which constructs a globular nest of mud andsand in which it deposits insect larvæ, such as cankerworms, as foodfor its young.
poulder: Powder. [Obs.]
pounding: The keeper of a pound.
pour: Poor. [Obs.] Chaucer.
pourpoint: A quilted military doublet or gambeson worn in the 14th and15th centuries; also, a name for the doublet of the 16th and 17thcenturies worn by civilians.
pourpresture: See Purpresture.
powdered: Same as Semé. Walpole.
powdike: A dike a marsh or fen. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.
powter: See Pouter.
practicalize: To render practical. [R.] "Practicalizing influences." J. S.Mill.
practisant: An agent or confederate in treachery. [Obs.] Shak.
praecava: The superior vena cava.-- Præ"ca`val, a. B. G. Wilder.
praecoracoid: See Precoracoid.
praefloration: Same as Prefloration. Gray.
praemunitory: See Premunitory.
praetores: A division of butterflies including the satyrs.
praetorium: See Pretorium.
pragmaticalness: The quality or state of being pragmatical.
prancer: A horse which prances.Then came the captain . . . upon a brave prancer. Evelyn.
prate: To talk much and to little purpose; to be loquacious; to speakfoolishly; to babble.To prate and talk for life and honor. Shak.And make a fool presume to prate of love. Dryden.
prater: One who prates. Shak.
prattle: To talk much and idly; to prate; hence, to talk lightly andartlessly, like a child; to utter child's talk.
pravity: Deterioration; degeneracy; corruption; especially, moralcrookedness; moral perversion; perverseness; depravity; as, thepravity of human nature. "The pravity of the will." South.
prayerless: Not using prayer; habitually neglecting prayer to God; withoutprayer. "The next time you go prayerless to bed." Baxter.-- Prayer"less*ly, adv.-- Prayer"less*ness, n.
prayingly: With supplication to God.
preact: To act beforehand; to perform previously.
preambulous: See Perambulatory. [R.] Sir T. Browne.
prebendal: Of or pertaining to a prebend; holding a prebend; as, aprebendal priest or stall. Chesterfield.
prebendship: A prebendaryship. [Obs.] Foxe.
precautious: Taking or using precaution; precautionary.-- Pre*cau"tious*ly, adv.-- Pre*cau"*tious*ness, n.
precedently: Beforehand; antecedently.
precel: To surpass; to excel; to exceed. [Obs.] Howell.
preceptory: Preceptive. "A law preceptory." Anderson (1573).
precipitability: The quality or state of being precipitable.
precognition: A preliminary examination of a criminal case with reference toa prosecution. Erskine.
preconcert: To concert or arrange beforehand; to settle by previousagreement.
preconize: To approve by preconization.
preconstitute: To constitute or establish beforehand.
precontract: To contract, engage, or stipulate previously.
precurrer: A precursor. [Obs.] Shak.
predatorily: In a predatory manner.
predatory: Living by preying upon other animals; carnivorous.
predeclare: To declare or announce beforehand; to preannounce. Milman.
predestinate: Predestinated; foreordained; fated. "A predestinate scratchedface." Shak.
predestinative: Determining beforehand; predestinating. [R.] Coleridge.
predestiny: Predestination. [Obs.]
predicative: Expressing affirmation or predication; affirming; predicating,as, a predicative term.-- Pred"i*ca*tive*ly, adv.
predilect: To elect or choose beforehand. [R.] Walter Harte.
predilection: A previous liking; a prepossession of mind in favor ofsomething; predisposition to choose or like; partiality. Burke.
preempt: To settle upon (public land) with a right of preemption, asunder the laws of the United States; to take by preëmption.
preemptory: Pertaining to preëmption.
preestablishment: Settlement beforehand.
preexist: To exist previously; to exist before something else.
prefatorily: In a prefatory manner; by way of preface.
preferable: Worthy to be preferred or chosen before something else; moredesirable; as, a preferable scheme. Addison.
preferableness: The quality or state of being preferable.
preferrer: One who prefers.
prefinition: Previous limitation. [Obs.] Fotherby.
prefloration: Æstivation.
prefoliation: Vernation.
pregravitate: To descend by gravity; to sink. [R.] Boyle.
prehistoric: Of or pertaining to a period before written history begins; as,the prehistoric ages; prehistoric man.
preintimation: Previous intimation; a suggestion beforehand. T. Scott.
prejudgment: The act of prejudging; decision before sufficient examination.
prelatial: Prelatical. Beaconsfield.
prelatically: In a prelatical manner; with reference to prelates. Milton.The last Georgic was a good prelude to the Æneis.
premeditately: With premeditation. Burke.
premious: Rich in gifts. [R.] Clarke.
prenasal: Situated in front of the nose, or in front of the nasalchambers.
prenomen: See Prænomen.
preoccupancy: The act or right of taking possession before another; as, thepreoccupancy of wild land.
preoption: Right of first choice.
prepare: Preparation. [Obs.] Shak.
prepay: To pay in advance, or beforehand; as, to prepay postage.
prepollent: Having superior influence or power; prevailing; predominant.[R.] Boyle.
prepositive: Put before; prefixed; as, a prepositive particle.-- n.
prerequire: To require beforehand.Some things are prerequired of us. Bp. Hall.
presbyopic: Affected by presbyopia; also, remedying presbyopia; farsighted.
prescience: Knowledge of events before they take place; foresight.God's certain prescience of the volitions of moral agents. J.Edwards.
prescribe: To direct, as a remedy to be used by a patient; as, the doctorprescribed quinine.
presenter: One who presents.
preservation: The act or process of preserving, or keeping safe; the state ofbeing preserved, or kept from injury, destruction, or decay;security; safety; as, preservation of life, fruit, game, etc.; apicture in good preservation.Give us particulars of thy preservation. Shak.
presignification: The act of signifying or showing beforehand.
pressboard: A kind of highly sized rag paper or board, sometimes containinga small admixture of wood pulp; -- so called because used originally,as now, in presses for pressing and finishing knit underwear.
pressitant: Gravitating; heavy. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.
presswork: The art of printing from the surface of type, plates, orengravings in relief, by means of a press; the work so done.MacKellar.
pretended: Making a false appearance; unreal; false; as, pretended friend.-- Pre*tend"ed*ly, adv.
pretenseful: Abounding in pretenses.
pretty: In some degree; moderately; considerably; rather; almost; --less emphatic than very; as, I am pretty sure of the fact; prettycold weather.Pretty plainly professes himself a sincere Christian. Atterbury.
prettyism: Affectation of a pretty style, manner, etc. [R.] Ed. Rev.
preventively: In a preventive manner.
prick: A small roll; as, a prick of spun yarn; a prick of tobacco.
pricksong: Music written, or noted, with dots or points; -- so called fromthe points or dots with which it is noted down. [Obs.]He fights as you sing pricksong. Shak.
prickwood: A shrub (Euonymus Europæus); -- so named from the use of itswood for goads, skewers, and shoe pegs. Called also spindle tree.
pried: imp. & p. p. of Pry.
priestcraft: Priestly policy; the policy of a priesthood; esp., in an illsense, fraud or imposition in religious concerns; management bypriests to gain wealth and power by working upon the religiousmotives or credulity of others.It is better that men should be governed by priestcraft than byviolence. Macaulay.
priggery: Priggism.
primary: Earliest formed; fundamental.
prime: The morning; specifically (R. C. Ch.), the first canonicalhour, succeeding to lauds.Early and late it rung, at evening and at prime. Spenser.
primerole: See Primrose. [Obs.] "She was a primerole." Chaucer.
primevally: In a primeval manner; in or from the earliest times;originally. Darwin.
primigenial: First born, or first of all; original; primary. SeePrimogenial.
primitiveness: The quality or state of being primitive; conformity toprimitive style or practice.
primity: Quality of being first; primitiveness. [Obs.] Bp. Pearson.
princeliness: The quality of being princely; the state, manner, or dignity ofa prince.
princeling: A petty prince; a young prince.
principalness: The quality of being principal.
principiate: To begin; to initiate. [Obs.] Sir M. Hale.
principle: Any original inherent constituent which characterizes asubstance, or gives it its essential properties, and which canusually be separated by analysis; -- applied especially to drugs,plant extracts, etc.Cathartine is the bitter, purgative principle of senna. Gregory.Bitter principle, Principle of contradiction, etc. See under Bitter,Contradiction, etc.
prise: An enterprise. [Obs.] Spenser.
probationship: A state of probation.
proceeding: The course of procedure in the prosecution of an action at law.Blackstone. Proceedings of a society, the published record of itsaction, or of things done at its meetings.
proception: Preoccupation. [Obs.] Eikon Basilik
procerite: The segment next to the flagellum of the antennæ of Crustacea.
process: Any marked prominence or projecting part, especially of a bone;anapophysis.
proclive: Having a tendency by nature; prone; proclivous. [R.] Mrs.Browning.
procrastination: The act or habit of procrastinating, or putting off to a futuretime; delay; dilatoriness.Procrastination is the thief of time. Young.
proctocele: Inversion and prolapse of the mucous coat of the rectum, fromrelaxation of the sphincter, with more or less swelling; prolapsusani. Dunglison.
procuratorial: Of or pertaining to a procurator, or proctor; made by aproctor. Ayliffe.
procuratory: Tending to, or authorizing, procuration.
prod: To thrust some pointed instrument into; to prick with somethingsharp; as, to prod a soldier with a bayonet; to prod oxen; hence, togoad, to incite, to worry; as, to prod a student. H. Taylor.
prodigal: Given to extravagant expenditure; expending money or otherthings without necessity; recklessly or viciously profuse; lavish;wasteful; not frugal or economical; as, a prodigal man; the prodigalson; prodigal giving; prodigal expenses.In fighting fields [patriots] were prodigal of blood. Dryden.
productivity: The quality or state of being productive; productiveness.Emerson.Not indeed as the product, but as the producing power, theproductivity. Coleridge.
proface: Much good may it do you! -- a familiar salutation or welcome.[Obs.]Master page, good master page, sit. Proface! Shak.
profanely: In a profane manner.The character of God profanely impeached. Dr. T. Dwight.
profaner: One who treats sacred things with irreverence, or defiles whatis holy; one who uses profane language. Hooker.
professory: Of or pertaining to a professor; professorial. [R.] Bacon.
profound: To cause to sink deeply; to cause to dive or penetrate fardown. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
prognosticate: To indicate as future; to foretell from signs or symptoms; toprophesy; to foreshow; to predict; as, to prognosticate evil. Burke.I neither will nor can prognosticate To the young gaping heir hisfather's fate. Dryden.
proheme: Proem. [Obs.] Chaucer.
projector: One who projects a scheme or design; hence, one who formsfanciful or chimerical schemes. L'Estrange.
proletaire: One of the common people; a low person; also, the common peopleas a class or estate in a country.
proletariat: The indigent class in the State; the body of proletarians.
prolificacy: Prolificness. [R.]
prolificness: The quality or state of being prolific; fruitfulness;prolificacy.
prolixness: Prolixity. Adam Smith.
prologizer: One who prologizes. [R.]
prologue: To introduce with a formal preface, or prologue. [R.] Shak.
prolongable: Capable of being prolonged; as, life is prolongable by care.Each syllable being a prolongable quantity. Rush.
promont: Promontory. [R.] Drayton.
promontory: A high point of land or rock projecting into the sea beyond theline of coast; a headland; a high cape.Like one that stands upon a promontory. Shak.
promorphologist: One versed in the science of promorphology.
pronoun: A word used instead of a noun or name, to avoid the repetitionof it. The personal pronouns in English are I, thou or you, he, she,it, we, ye, and they.
pronounceable: Capable of being pronounced.
pronucleus: One of the two bodies or nuclei (called male and femalepronuclei) which unite to form the first segmentation nucleus of animpregnated ovum.
pronunciator: One who pronounces; a pronouncer.
proof: A trial impression, as from type, taken for correction orexamination; -- called also proof sheet.
propel: To drive forward; to urge or press onward by force; to move, orcause to move; as, the wind or steam propels ships; balls arepropelled by gunpowder.
prophecy: A book of prophecies; a history; as, the prophecy of Ahijah. 2Chron. ix. 29.
prophetically: In a prophetical manner; by way of prediction.
prophylaxis: The art of preserving from, or of preventing, disease; theobservance of the rules necessary for the preservation of health;preservative or preventive treatment.
propiolic: Pertaining to, or designating, an organic acid (called alsopropargylic acid) of the acetylene or tetrolic series, analogous topropionic acid, and obtained as a white crystalline substance.C3H2O2,CH.C.COOH
propitiation: That which propitiates; atonement or atoning sacrifice;specifically, the influence or effects of the death of Christ inappeasing the divine justice, and conciliating the divine favor.He [Jesus Christ] is the propitiation for our sins. 1 John ii. 2.
propitiator: One who propitiates or appeases.
proplasm: A mold; a matrix. [R.] Woodward.
propodiale: The bone of either the upper arm or the thing, the propodialiabeing the humerus and femur.
proportionately: In a proportionate manner; with due proportion; proportionally.
proportionateness: The quality or state of being proportionate. Sir M. Hale.
proportionless: Without proportion; unsymmetrical.
propositional: Pertaining to, or in the nature of, a proposition; consideredas a proposition; as, a propositional sense. I. Watts.
proprietorship: The state of being proprietor; ownership.
propylic: Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, propyl; as,propylic alcohol.
prorector: An officer who presides over the academic senate of a Germanuniversity. Heyse.
prosaist: A writer of prose; an unpoetical writer. "An estimableprosaist." I. Taylor.
prosecutrix: A female prosecutor.
proselyte: A new convert especially a convert to some religion orreligious sect, or to some particular opinion, system, or party;thus, a Gentile converted to Judaism, or a pagan converted toChristianity, is a proselyte.Ye [Scribes and Pharisees] compass sea and land to make oneproselyte. Matt. xxiii. 15.Fresh confidence the speculatist takes From every harebrainedproselyte he makes. Cowper.
prosody: That part of grammar which treats of the quantity of syllables,of accent, and of the laws of versification or metrical composition.
prosopolepsy: Respect of persons; especially, a premature opinion orprejudice against a person, formed from his external appearance. [R.]Addison.
prosternum: The ventral plate of the prothorax of an insect.
prostitute: Openly given up to lewdness; devoted to base or infamouspurposes.Made bold by want, and prostitute for bread. Prior
prostrate: Trailing on the ground; procumbent.
protectiveness: The quality or state of being protective. W. Pater.
protector: One having the care of the kingdom during the king's minority;a regent.Is it concluded he shall be protector ! Shak.
proteolytic: Converting proteid or albuminous matter into soluble anddiffusible products, as peptones. " The proteolytic ferment of thepancreas." Foster.
protracter: A protractor.
protrude: To shoot out or forth; to be thrust forward; to extend beyond alimit; to project.The parts protrude beyond the skin. Bacon.
protrusively: In a protrusive manner.
proustite: A sulphide of arsenic and silver of a beautiful cochineal-redcolor, occurring in rhombohedral crystals, and also massive; rubysilver.
prove: To test, evince, ascertain, or verify, as the correctness ofany operation or result; thus, in subtraction, if the differencebetween two numbers, added to the lesser number, makes a sum equal tothe greater, the correctness of the subtraction is proved.
provenient: Forthcoming; issuing. [Rare]
prover: One who, or that which, proves.
provocation: Such prior insult or injury as may be supposed, under thecircumstances, to create hot blood, and to excuse an assault made inretort or redress.
proxyship: The office or agency of a proxy.
prudence: The quality or state of being prudent; wisdom in the way ofcaution and provision; discretion; carefulness; hence, also, economy;frugality.Prudence is principally in reference to actions to be done, and duemeans, order, seasons, and method of doing or not doing. Sir M. Hale.Prudence supposes the value of the end to be assumed, and refers onlyto the adaptation of the means. It is the relation of right means forgiven ends. Whewell.
prussic: designating the acid now called hydrocyanic acid, but formerlycalled prussic acid, because Prussian blue is derived from it or itscompounds. See Hydrocyanic.
pryan: See Prian.
prytany: The period during which the presidency of the senate belongedto the prytanes of the section.
psalmography: The act or practice of writing psalms, or sacred songs.
pseudograph: A false writing; a spurious document; a forgery.
pseudography: False writing; forgery.
pseudologist: One who utters falsehoods; a liar.
pseudoneuroptera: division of insects (Zoöl.) reticulated wings, as in theNeuroptera, but having an active pupa state. It includes the dragonflies, May flies, white ants, etc. By some zoölogists they areclassed with the Orthoptera; by others, with the Neuroptera.
pseudoscopic: Of, pertaining to, or formed by, a pseudoscope; having itsparts appearing with the relief reversed; as, a pseudoscopic image.
pseudoturbinal: See under Turbinal.
psilanthropic: Pertaining to, or embodying, psilanthropy. "A psilanthropicexplanation." Coleridge.
psilomelane: A hydrous oxide of manganese, occurring in smooth, botryoidalforms, and massive, and having an iron-black or steel-gray color.
psoric: Of or pertaining to psora.
psychiatric: Of or pertaining to psychiatria.
psychomachy: A conflict of the soul with the body.
psychrometrical: Of or pertaining to the psychrometer or psychrometry.
ptilopaedic: Having nearly the whole surface of the skin covered with down;dasypædic; -- said of the young of certain birds.
ptilopteri: An order of birds including only the penguins.
pudding: Same as Puddening. Pudding grass (Bot.), the true pennyroyal(Mentha Pulegium), formerly used to flavor stuffing for roast meat.Dr. Prior.-- Pudding pie, a pudding with meat baked in it. Taylor (1630).-- Pudding pipe (Bot.), the long, cylindrical pod of the leguminoustree Cassia Fistula. The seeds are separately imbedded in a sweetishpulp. See Cassia.-- Pudding sleeve, a full sleeve like that of the English clericalgown. Swift.-- Pudding stone. (Min.) See Conglomerate, n., 2.-- Pudding time. (a) The time of dinner, pudding being formerly thedish first eaten. [Obs.] Johnson. (b) The nick of time; criticaltime. [Obs.]Mars, that still protects the stout, In pudding time came to his aid.Hudibras.
pudicity: Modesty; chastity. Howell.
pue: To make a low whistling sound; to chirp, as birds. Halliwell.
pugh: Pshaw! pish! -- a word used in contempt or disdain.
pugil: As much as is taken up between the thumb and two first fingers.[Obs.] Bacon.
puissant: Powerful; strong; mighty; forcible; as, a puissant prince orempire. " Puissant deeds." Milton.Of puissant nations which the world possessed. Spenser.And worldlings in it are less merciful, And more puissant. Mrs.Browning.
pullback: The iron hook fixed to a casement to pull it shut, or to holdit party open at a fixed point.
pulldevil: A number of fishhooks rigidly fastened back to be pulledthrough the water to catch fish.
pullen: Poultry. [Obs.]
pullicate: A kind of checked cotton or silk handkerchief.
pulmocutaneous: Of or pertaining to the lungs and the akin; as, thepulmocutaneous arteries of the frog.
pulmonated: same as Pulmonate (a).
pulmonibranchiata: Same as Pulmonata.
pulmonifera: Same as Pulmonata.
pultaceous: Macerated; softened; nearly fluid.
pulverization: The action of reducing to dust or powder.
pulvinar: A prominence on the posterior part of the thalamus of the humanbrain.
pumiceous: Of or pertaining to pumice; resembling pumice.
pumpkin: A well-known trailing plant (Cucurbita pepo) and its fruit, --used for cooking and for feeding stock; a pompion. Pumpkin seed. (a)The flattish oval seed of the pumpkin. (b) (Zoöl.) The commonpondfish.
punctilio: A nice point of exactness in conduct, ceremony, or proceeding;particularity or exactness in forms; as, the punctilios of a publicceremony.They will not part with the least punctilio in their opinions andpractices. Fuller.
punctuation: The act or art of punctuating or pointing a writing ordiscourse; the art or mode of dividing literary composition intosentences, and members of a sentence, by means of points, so as toelucidate the author's meaning.
pundit: A learned man; a teacher; esp., a Brahman versed in theSanskrit language, and in the science, laws, and religion of theHindoos; in Cashmere, any clerk or native official. [Written alsopandit.] [India]
pungence: Pungency.
puniness: The quality or state of being puny; littleness; pettiness;feebleness.
punkie: A minute biting fly of the genus Ceratopogon or allied genus ofthe family Chironomidæ, found in swarms in various densely wooded ormountaneous regions. [U. S.]
punt: To play at basset, baccara, faro. or omber; to gamble.She heard . . . of his punting at gaming tables. Thackeray.
pupigerous: Bearing or containing a pupa; -- said of dipterous larvæ whichdo not molt when the pupa is formed within them.
puppetish: Resembling a puppet in appearance or action; of the nature of apuppet.
puppyhood: The time or state of being a puppy; the time of being young andundisciplined.
puppyish: Like a puppy.
purificative: Having power to purify; tending to cleanse. [R.]
puriform: In the form of pus.
purism: Rigid purity; the quality of being affectedly pure or nice,especially in the choice of language; over-solicitude as to purity."His political purism." De Quincey.The English language, however, . . . had even already become toothoroughly and essentially a mixed tongue for his doctrine of purismto be admitted to the letter. Craik.
purloiner: One who purloins. Swift.
purplewood: Same as Purpleheart.
purpura: A disease characterized by livid spots on the skin fromextravasated blood, with loss of muscular strength, pain in thelimbs, and mental dejection; the purples. Dunglison.
purre: The dunlin. [Prov. Eng.]
pursuable: Capable of being, or fit to be, pursued, followed, orprosecuted. Sherwood.
purulently: In a purulent manner.
putage: Prostitution or fornication on the part of a woman.
putative: Commonly thought or deemed; supposed; reputed; as, the putativefather of a child. "His other putative (I dare not say feigned)friends." E. Hall.Thus things indifferent, being esteemed useful or pious, becamecustomary, and then came for reverence into a putative and usurpedauthority. Jer. Taylor.
putrescin: A nontoxic diamine, C4H12N2, formed in the putrefaction of theflesh of mammals and some other animals.
puttier: One who putties; a glazier.
puy: See Poy.
pycnostyle: See under Intercolumniation. -n.
pyet: A magpie; a piet. [Prov. Eng.]Here cometh the worthy prelate as pert as a pyet. Sir W. Scott.
pyoid: Of or pertaining to pus; of the nature of, or like, pus. Pyoidcorpuscles (Med.), cells of a size larger than pus corpuscles,containing two or more of the latter.
pyramidoid: A solid resembling a pyramid; -- called also pyramoid. Barlow.
pyre: A funeral pile; a combustible heap on which the dead areburned; hence, any pile to be burnt.For nine long nights, through all the dusky air, The pyres thickflaming shot a dismal glare. Pope.
pyrenoid: A transparent body found in the chromatophores of certainInfusoria.
pyrheliometer: An instrument for measuring the direct heating effect of thesun's rays.
pyritiferous: Containing or producing pyrites.
pyritohedral: Like pyrites in hemihedral form.
pyrotechnian: A pyrotechnist.
pythonist: A conjurer; a diviner.
pyuria: A morbid condition in which pus is discharged in the urine.
pyx: The box, case, vase, or tabernacle, in which the host isreserved.
quadricostate: Having four ribs.
quadrillion: According to the French notation, which is followed also uponthe Continent and in the United States, a unit with fifteen ciphersannexed; according to the English notation, the number produced byinvolving a million to the fourth power, or the number represented bya unit with twenty-four ciphers annexed. See the Note underNumeration.
quadrivalence: The quality or state of being quadrivalent; tetravalence.
quadrivial: Having four ways meeting in a point. B. Jonson.
quadroxide: A tetroxide. [R.]
quaggy: Of the nature of a quagmire; yielding or trembling under thefoot, as soft, wet earth; spongy; boggy. "O'er the watery strath, orquaggy moss." Collins.
quamash: See Camass.
quarl: A medusa, or jellyfish. [R.]The jellied quarl that flings At once a thousand streaming stings. J.R. Drake.
quarrelet: A little quarrel. See 1st Quarrel, 2. [Obs.] "Quarrelets ofpearl [teeth]." Herrick.
quartzous: Quarzose.
quayage: Wharfage. [Also keyage.]
queendom: The dominion, condition, or character of a queen. Mrs.Browning.
quegh: A drinking vessel. See Quaich.
quellio: A ruff for the neck. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
quenchless: Incapable of being quenched; inextinguishable; as, quenchlessfire or fury. "Once kindled, quenchless evermore." Byron.
quercus: A genus of trees constituted by the oak. See Oak.
questionary: Inquiring; asking questions; testing. "Questionary epistles."Pope.
quica: A small South American opossum (Didelphys quica), native ofGuiana and Brazil. It feeds upon insects, small birds, and fruit.
quich: To stir. [Obs.]He could not move nor quich at all. Spenser.
quick: In a quick manner; quickly; promptly; rapidly; with haste;speedily; without delay; as, run quick; get back quick.If we consider how very quick the actions of the mind are performed.Locke.
quickening: The first motion of the fetus in the womb felt by the mother,occurring usually about the middle of the term of pregnancy. It hasbeen popularly supposed to be due to the fetus becoming possessed ofindependent life.
quidnunc: One who is curious to know everything that passes; one whoknows, or pretends to know, all that is going on. "The idle storiesof quidnuncs." Motley.
quietness: The quality or state of being quiet; freedom from noise,agitation, disturbance, or excitement; stillness; tranquillity;calmness.I would have peace and quietness. Shak.
quinaldine: A colorless liquid of a slightly pungent odor, C9H6N.CH3, firstobtained as a condensation product of aldehyde and aniline, andregarded as a derivative of quinoline; -- called also methylquinoline. [Written also chinaldine.]
quinate: Growing in sets of five; -- said especially of leaves composedof five leaflets set at the end of a common petiole.
quinquelobed: Same as Quinquelobate.
quinquevir: One of five commissioners appointed for some special object.
quintan: Occurring as the fifth, after four others also, occurring everyfifth day, reckoning inclusively; as, a quintan fever.-- n. (Med.)
quitclaim: A release or relinquishment of a claim; a deed of release; aninstrument by which some right, title, interest, or claim, which oneperson has, or is supposed to have, in or to an estate held byhimself or another, is released or relinquished, the grantorgenerally covenanting only against persons who claim under himself.
quizzical: Relating to quizzing
quizzism: The act or habit of quizzing.
quotable: Capable or worthy of being quoted; as, a quotable writer; aquotable sentence.-- Quot`a*bit"i*ty, n. Poe.
quote: To name the current price of.
quoth: Said; spoke; uttered; -- used only in the first and thirdpersons in the past tenses, and always followed by its nominative,the word or words said being the object; as, quoth I. quoth he. "Letme not live, quoth he." Shak.
quotum: Part or proportion; quota. [R.] "A very small quotum." MaxMüller.
quran: See Koran.
rabbinic: The language or dialect of the rabbins; the later Hebrew.
raceabout: A small sloop-rigged racing yacht carrying about six hundredsquare feet of sail, distinguished from a knockabout by having ashort bowsprit.
racemous: See Racemose.
rachialgia: A painful affection of the spine; especially, Pott's disease;also, formerly, lead colic.
rachidian: Of or pertaining to the rachis; spinal; vertebral. Same asRhachidian.
racovian: One of a sect of Socinians or Unitarians in Poland.
rad: imp. & p. p. of Read, Rede. Spenser.
radeau: A float; a raft.Three vessels under sail, and one at anchor, above Split Rock, andbehind it the radeau Thunderer. W. Irving.
radiant: Giving off rays; -- said of a bearing; as, the sun radiant; acrown radiant.
radiograph: A picture produced by the Röntgen rays upon a sensitivesurface, photographic or fluorescent, especially a picture of opaqueobjects traversed by the rays.
radiophony: The art or practice of using the radiophone.
radix: A primitive, from which spring other words; a radical; a root;an etymon.
raff: To sweep, snatch, draw, or huddle together; to take by apromiscuous sweep. [Obs.]Causes and effects which I thus raff up together. Carew.
rafflesia: A genus of stemless, leafless plants, living parasitically uponthe roots and stems of grapevines in Malaysia. The flowers have acarrionlike odor, and are very large, in one species (RafflesiaArnoldi) having a diameter of two or three feet.
rage: To enrage. [Obs.] Shak.
ragweed: A common American composite weed (Ambrosia artemisiæfolia) withfinely divided leaves; hogweed. Great ragweed, a coarse American herb(Ambrosia trifida), with rough three-lobed opposite leaves.
rail: An outer cloak or covering; a neckerchief for women. Fairholt.
raininess: The state of being rainy.
raivel: A separator. [Scot.]
rajahship: The office or dignity of a rajah.
rake: A fissure or mineral vein traversing the strata vertically, ornearly so; -- called also rake-vein. Gill rakes. (Anat.) See under1st Gill.
rallies: A French political group, also known as the ConstitutionalRight from its position in the Chambers, mainly monarchists whorallied to the support of the Republic in obedience to the encyclicalput forth by Pope Leo XIII. in Feb., 1892.
ralph: A name sometimes given to the raven.
rambutan: A Malayan fruit produced by the tree Nephelium lappaceum, andclosely related to the litchi nut. It is bright red, oval in shape,covered with coarse hairs (whence the name), and contains a pleasantacid pulp. Called also ramboostan.
ramenta: Thin brownish chaffy scales upon the leaves or young shoots ofsome plants, especially upon the petioles and leaves of ferns. Gray.
rampallian: A mean wretch. [Obs.] Shak.
rampier: See Rampart. [Obs.]
rampire: A rampart. [Archaic]The Trojans round the place a rampire cast. Dryden.
ramsted: A yellow-flowered weed; -- so named from a Mr. Ramsted whointroduced it into Pennsylvania. See Toad flax. Called also Ramstedweed.
ramus: A branch; a projecting part or prominent process; aramification.
rancidness: The quality of being rancid.
random: The direction of a rake-vein. Raymond.
randomly: In a random manner.
ransom: A sum paid for the pardon of some great offense and thedischarge of the offender; also, a fine paid in lieu of corporalpunishment. Blackstone. Ransom bill (Law), a war contract, valid bythe law of nations, for the ransom of property captured at sea andits safe conduct into port. Kent.
raphaelite: One who advocates or adopts the principles of Raphaelism.
rapparee: A wild Irish plunderer, esp. one of the 17th century; -- socalled from his carrying a half-pike, called a rapary. [Written alsoraparee.]
rapped: imp. & p. p. of Rap, to strike.
rapprochement: Act or fact of coming or being drawn near or together;establishment or state of cordial relations.
rapturous: Ecstatic; transporting; ravishing; feeling, expressing, ormanifesting rapture; as, rapturous joy, pleasure, or delight;rapturous applause.
rasores: An order of birds; the Gallinæ.
ratafia: A spirituous liquor flavored with the kernels of cherries,apricots, peaches, or other fruit, spiced, and sweetened with sugar;-- a term applied to the liqueurs called noyau, curaçao, etc.[Written also ratifia and ratafee.]
ration: To supply with rations, as a regiment.
rattlehead: An empty, noisy talker.
raucity: Harshness of sound; rough utterance; hoarseness; as, theraucity of a trumpet, or of the human voice.
ravager: One who, or that which, ravages or lays waste; spoiler.
rawbone: Rawboned. [Obs.] Spencer.
rawish: Somewhat raw. [R.] Marston.
rawness: The quality or state of being raw.
razed: Slashed or striped in patterns. [Obs.] "Two Provincial roses onmy razed shoes." Shak.
reach: An effort to vomit. [R.]
readjournment: The act of readjourning; a second or repeated adjournment.
ready: A word of command, or a position, in the manual of arms, atwhich the piece is cocked and held in position to execute promptlythe next command, which is, aim. All ready, ready in everyparticular; wholly equipped or prepared. "[I] am all redy at yourhest." Chaucer.-- Ready money, means of immediate payment; cash. "'Tis all theready money fate can give." Cowley.-- Ready reckoner, a book of tables for facilitating computations,as of interest, prices, etc.-- To make ready, to make preparation; to get in readiness.
realgar: Arsenic sulphide, a mineral of a brilliant red color; redorpiment. It is also an artificial product.
reality: Loyalty; devotion. [Obs.]To express our reality to the emperor. Fuller.
reapproach: To approach again or anew.
reargument: An arguing over again, as of a motion made in court.
rearly: Early. [Obs.] Beau. & Ft.
reasonableness: Quality of being reasonable.
reassemblage: Assemblage a second time or again.
rebatement: Same as 3d Rebate, v.
rebel: Pertaining to rebels or rebellion; acting in revolt;rebellious; as, rebel troops.Whoso be rebel to my judgment. Chaucer.Convict by flight, and rebel to all law. Milton.
rebellow: To bellow again; to repeat or echo a bellow.The cave rebellowed, and the temple shook. Dryden.
rebound: To send back; to reverberate.Silenus sung; the vales his voice rebound. Dryden.
rebuker: One who rebukes.
rebullition: The act of boiling up or effervescing. [R.] Sir H. Wotton.
rebutter: The answer of a defendant in matter of fact to a plaintiff'ssurrejoinder.
recalcitrate: To kick against; to show repugnance to; to rebuff.The more heartily did one disdain his disdain, and recalcitrate histricks. De Quincey.
recall: A call on the trumpet, bugle, or drum, by which soldiers arerecalled from duty, labor, etc. Wilhelm.
recantation: The act of recanting; a declaration that contradicts a formerone; that which is thus asserted in contradiction; retraction.The poor man was imprisoned for this discovery, and forced to make apublic recantation. Bp. Stillingfleet.
recapture: To capture again; to retake.
receipt: To give a receipt, as for money paid.
receivable: Capable of being received.-- Re*ceiv"a*ble*ness, n. Bills receivable. See under 6th Bill.
recentness: Quality or state of being recent.
recession: The act of receding or withdrawing, as from a place, a claim,or a demand. South.Mercy may rejoice upon the recessions of justice. Jer. Taylor.
recidivist: One who is recidivous or is characterized by recidivism; anincorrigible criminal. -- Re*cid`i*vis"tic (#), a.
reciprocal: Reflexive; -- applied to pronouns and verbs, but sometimeslimited to such pronouns as express mutual action.
reciprocate: To move forward and backward alternately; to recur invicissitude; to act interchangeably; to alternate.One brawny smith the puffing bellows plies, And draws and blowsreciprocating air. Dryden.Reciprocating engine, a steam, air, or gas engine, etc., in which thepiston moves back and forth; -- in distinction from a rotary engine,in which the piston travels continuously in one direction in acircular path.-- Reciprocating motion (Mech.), motion alternately backward andforward, or up and down, as of a piston rod.
reclasp: To clasp or unite again.
reclinant: Bending or leaning backward.
recomfort: To comfort again; to console anew; to give new strength to.Bacon.Gan her recomfort from so sad affright. Spenser.
recommit: To commit again; to give back into keeping; specifically, torefer again to a committee; as, to recommit a bill to the samecommittee.
recompact: To compact or join anew. "Recompact my scattered body." Donne.
reconcentrate: To concentrate again; to concentrate thoroughly.
reconquest: A second conquest.
reconsolidate: To consolidate anew or again.
reconstruct: To construct again; to rebuild; to remodel; to form again oranew.Regiments had been dissolved and reconstructed. Macaulay.
recordership: The office of a recorder.
recount: To count or reckon again.
recouper: One who recoups. Story.
recoverable: Capable of being recovered or regained; capable of beingbrought back to a former condition, as from sickness, misfortune,etc.; obtainable from a debtor or possessor; as, the debt isrecoverable; goods lost or sunk in the ocean are not recoverable.A prodigal course Is like the sun's; but not, like his, recoverable.Shak.If I am recoverable, why am I thus Cowper.-- Re*cov"er*a*ble*ness, n.
recreance: Recreancy.
recreancy: The quality or state of being recreant.
recreation: The act of recreating, or the state of being recreated;refreshment of the strength and spirits after toil; amusement;diversion; sport; pastime.
recriminatory: Having the quality of recrimination; retorting accusation;recriminating.
recrudesce: To be in a state of recrudescence; esp., to come into renewedfreshness, vigor, or activity; to revive.
rectovaginal: Of or pertaining to both the rectum and the vagina.
rectrix: One of the quill feathers of the tail of a bird.
rectum: The terminal part of the large intestine; -- so named becausesupposed by the old anatomists to be straight. See Illust. underDigestive.
recule: To recoil. [Obs.] Spenser.
recumbency: Recumbence.
recusant: Obstinate in refusal; specifically, in English history,refusing to acknowledge the supremacy of the king in the churc, or toconform to the established rites of the church; as, a recusant lord.It stated him to have placed his son in the household of the Countessof Derby, a recusant papist. Sir W. Scott.
recusative: Refusing; denying; negative. [R.] Jer. Taylor.
redact: To reduce to form, as literary matter; to digest and put inshape (matter for publication); to edit.
reddendum: A clause in a deed by which some new thing is reserved out ofwhat had been granted before; the clause by which rent is reserved ina lease. Cruise.
reddish: Somewhat red; moderately red.-- Red"dish*ness, n.
redeemableness: The quality or state of being redeemable; redeemability.
redeless: Without rede or counsel. [Obs.]
rediminish: To diminish again.
redition: Act of returning; return. [Obs.] Chapman.
redivivus: Living again; revived; restored.
redoubt: To stand in dread of; to regard with fear; to dread. [R.]
redresser: One who redresses.
redressible: Such as may be redressed.
reducent: Tending to reduce.-- n.
reducible: Capable of being reduced.
reeden: Consisting of a reed or reeds.Through reeden pipes convey the golden flood. Dryden.
reemergence: Act of re
reencourage: To encourage again.
reenjoy: To enjoi anew. Pope.
reenjoyment: Renewed enjoiment.
reenlist: To enlist again.
reentering: The process of applying additional colors, by applications ofprinting blocks, to patterns already partly colored.
reestablish: To establish anew; to fix or confirm again; to restore; as, toreëstablish a covenant; to reëstablish health.
reexpel: To expel again.
refaction: Recompense; atonemet; retribution. [Obs.] Howell.
referable: Capable of being referred, or considered in relation tosomething else; assignable; ascribable. [Written also referrible.]It is a question among philosophers, whether all the attractionswhich obtain between bodies are referable to one general cause. W.Nicholson.
referrible: Referable. Hallam.
refill: To fill, or become full, again.
refind: To find again; to get or experience again. Sandys.
reflectible: Capable of being reflected, or thrown back; reflexible.
refloat: Reflux; ebb. [Obs.] Bacon.
reflower: To flower, or cause to flower, again. Sylvester.
refluctuation: A flowing back; refluence.
refluent: Flowing back; returning; ebbing. Cowper.And refluent through the pass of fear The battle's tide was poured.Sir W. Scott.
refocillation: Restoration of strength by refreshment. [Obs.] Middleton.
reforestization: The act or process of reforestizing.
refounder: One who refounds.
refresh: The act of refreshing. [Obs.] Daniel.
refret: Refrain. [Obs.] Bailey.
refrigeratory: Mitigating heat; cooling.
regalism: The doctrine of royal prerogative or supremacy. [R.] CardinalManning.
regelation: The act or process of freezing anew, or together,as two piecesof ice.
regeneration: The entering into a new spiritual life; the act of becoming, orof being made, Christian; that change by which holy affectations andpurposes are substituted for the opposite motives in the heart.He saved us by the washing of regeneration, and renewing of the HolyChost. Tit. iii. 5.
regenerative: Of or pertaining to regeneration; tending to regenerate; as,regenerative influences. H. Bushnell. Regenerative furnace (Metal.),a furnace having a regenerator in which gas used for fuel, and airfor supporting combustion, are heated; a Siemens furnace.
regenesis: New birth; renewal.A continued regenesis of dissenting sects. H. Spenser.
regest: A register. [Obs.] Milton.
regian: An upholder of kingly authority; a royalist. [Obs.] Fuller.
registrar: One who registers; a recorder; a keeper of records; as, aregistrar of births, deaths, and marriages. See Register, n., 3.
regratiatory: A returning or giving of thanks. [Obs.] Skelton.
regrowth: The act of regrowing; a second or new growth. Darwin.The regrowth of limbs which had been cut off. A. B. Buckley.
reguerdon: To reward. [Obs.] Shak.
reigner: One who reigns. [R.]
reimprint: To imprint again.
rein: To be guided by reins. [R.] Shak.
reinfund: To flow in anew. [Obs.] Swift.
reintroduce: To introduce again.-- Re*in`tro*duc"tion (-d, n.
reiter: A German cavalry soldier of the fourteenth and fifteenthcenturies.
rejectable: Capable of being, or that ought to be, rejected.
relaxant: A medicine that relaxes; a laxative.
release: To lease again; to grant a new lease of; to let back.
releasement: The act of releasing, as from confinement or obligation.Milton.
reliable: Suitable or fit to be relied on; worthy of dependance orreliance; trustworthy. "A reliable witness to the truth of themiracles." A. Norton.The best means, and most reliable pledge, of a higher object.Coleridge.According to General Livingston's humorous account, his own villageof Elizabethtown was not much more reliable, being peopled in thoseagitated times by "unknown, unrecommended strangers, guilty-lookingTories, and very knavish Whigs." W. Irving.
relish: To have a pleasing or appetizing taste; to give gratification;to have a flavor.Had I been the finder-out of this secret, it would not have relishedamong my other discredits. Shak.A theory, which, how much soever it may relish of wit and invention,hath no foundation in nature. Woodward.
relive: To live again; to revive.
relove: To love in return. [Obs.] Boyle.
remarriage: A second or repeated marriage.
remast: To furnish with a new mast or set of masts.
remeasure: To measure again; to retrace.They followed him . . . The way they came, their steps remeasuredright. Fairfax.
remelt: To melt again.
remiped: Having feet or legs that are used as oars; -- said of certaincrustaceans and insects.
remittal: A remitting; a giving up; surrender; as, the remittal of thefirst fruits. Swift.
remonstrate: To point out; to show clearly; to make plain or manifest;hence, to prove; to demonstrate. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor.I will remonstrate to you the third door. B. Jonson.
remord: To excite to remorse; to rebuke. [Obs.] Skelton.
remordency: Remorse; compunction; compassion. [Obs.] Killingbeck.
remorseless: Being without remorse; having no pity; hence, destitute ofsensibility; cruel; insensible to distress; merciless. "Remorselessadversaries." South. "With remorseless cruelty." Milton.
remount: To mount again.
remunerable: Admitting, or worthy, of remuneration.-- Re*mu`ner*a*bil"i*ty (r, n.
remuneratory: Remunerative. Johnson.
renegade: One faithless to principle or party. Specifically:(a) An apostate from Christianity or from any form of religiousfaith.James justly regarded these renegades as the most serviceable toolsthat he could employ. Macaulay.
renew: To make new spiritually; to regenerate.Be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind. Rom. xii. 2.
renewable: Capable of being renewed; as, a lease renewable at pleasure.Swift.
reneye: To deney; to reject; to renounce. [Obs.]For he made every man reneye his law. Chaucer.
reniform: Having the form or shape of a kidney; as, a reniform mineral; areniform leaf.
renning: See 2d Rennet. [Obs.]Asses' milk is holden for to be thickest, and therefore they use itinstead of renning, to turn milk. Holland.
renouncer: One who renounces.
renownful: Having great renown; famous. "Renownful Scipio." Marston.
rent: To rant. [R. & Obs.] Hudibras.
rente: In France, interest payable by government on indebtedness; thebonds, shares, stocks, etc.,, which represent governmentindebtedness.
renter: One who rents or leases an estate; -- usually said of a lesseeor tenant.
renversement: A reversing. [Obs.]
reobtain: To obtain again.
reobtainable: That may be reobtained.
reorder: To order a second time.
reotrope: See Rheotrope.
repacker: One who repacks.
repealability: The quality or state of being repealable.
repenter: One who repents.
repertitious: Found; gained by finding. [Obs.]
replenisher: One who replenishes.
replum: The framework of some pods, as the cress, which remains afterthe valves drop off. Gray.
reposition: The act of repositing; a laying up.
repositor: An instrument employed for replacing a displaced organ or part.
representationary: Implying representation; representative. [R.]
reprimand: Severe or formal reproof; reprehension, private or public.Goldsmith gave his landlady a sharp reprimand for her treatment ofhim. Macaulay.
repristination: Restoration to an original state; renewal of purity. [R.] R.Browning.
reprobacy: Reprobation. [R.]
reprobatory: Reprobative.
reptatory: Creeping.
republicanize: To change, as a state, into a republic; to republicanprinciples; as, France was republicanized; to republicanize therising generation. D. Ramsay.
republish: To publish anew; specifically, to publish in one country (awork first published in another); also, to revive (a will) by reSubsecquent to the purchase or contract, the devisor republished hiswill. Blackstone.
repugnate: To oppose; to fight against. [Obs.]
repullulation: The act of budding again; the state of having budded again.
requiem: A mass said or sung for the repose of a departed soul.We should profane the service of the dead To sing a requiem and suchrest to her As to peace-parted souls. Shak.
requisition: A formal demand made by one state or government upon anotherfor the surrender or extradition of a fugitive from justice. Kent.(b) (Law) A notarial demand of a debt. Wharton.(c) (Mil.) A demand by the invader upon the people of an invadedcountry for supplies, as of provision, forage, transportation, etc.Farrow.(d) A formal application by one officer to another for things neededin the public service; as, a requisition for clothing, troops, ormoney.
requisitive: Expressing or implying demand. [R.] Harris.
requite: To repay; in a good sense, to recompense; to return (anequivalent) in good; to reward; in a bad sense, to retaliate; toreturn (evil) for evil; to punish.He can requite thee; for he knows the charma That call fame on suchgentle acts as these. Milton.Thou hast seen it; for thou beholdest mischief and spite, to requiteit with thy hand. Ps. x. 14.
rerefief: A fief held of a superior feudatory; a fief held by an undertenant. Blackstone.
rescat: To ransom; to release; to rescue. [Obs.] Howell.
rescous: See Rescue,2. [Obs.]
research: Diligent inquiry or examination in seeking facts or principles;laborius or continued search after truth; as, researches of humanwisdom.The dearest interests of parties have frequently been staked on theresults of the researches of antiquaries. Macaulay.
reseau: A system of lines forming small squares of standard size, whichis photographed, by a separate exposure, on the same plate with starimages to facilitate measurements, detect changes of the film, etc.(b) In lace, a ground or foundation of regular meshes, like network.
resell: To sell again; to sell what has been bought or sold; to retail.
resentive: Resentful. [R.] Thomson.
reservist: A member of a reserve force of soldiers or militia. [Eng.]
resettle: To settle again. Swift.
reship: To ship again; to put on board of a vessel a second time; tosend on a second voyage; as, to reship bonded merchandise.
resister: One who resists.
resolvent: Having power to resolve; causing solution; solvent.
respectant: Placed so as to face one another; -- said of animals.
respondentia: A loan upon goods laden on board a ship. It differs frombottomry, which is a loan on the ship itself. Bouvier.
responsal: Answerable. [Obs.]
restauration: Restoration. [Obs.] Cower.
restinction: Act of quenching or extingishing. [Obs.]
restringency: Quality or state of being restringent; astringency. [Obs.] SirW. Petty.
restringent: Restringing; astringent; styptic. [Obs.] -- n.
resudation: Act of sweating again.
resuscitable: Capable of resuscitation; as, resuscitable plants. Boyle.
resuscitation: The act of resuscitating, or state of being resuscitated.The subject of resuscitation by his sorceries. Sir W. Scott.
retable: A shelf behind the altar, for display of lights, vases ofwlowers, etc.
retard: To stay back. [Obs.] Sir. T. Browne.
retardative: Tending, or serving, to retard.
retene: A white crystalline hydrocarbon, polymeric with benzene. It isextracted from pine tar, and is also found in certain fossil resins.
retent: That which is retained. Hickok.
retentivity: The power of retaining; retentive force; as, the retentivity ofa magnet.
retepore: Any one of several species of bryozoans of the genus Retepora.They form delicate calcareous corals, usually composed of thinfenestrated fronds.
retineum: That part of the eye of an invertebrate which corresponds infunction with the retina of a vertebrate.
retractate: To retract; to recant. [Obs.]
retreatful: Furnishing or serving as a retreat. [R.] "Our retreatfulflood." Chapman.
retrocedent: Disposed or likely to retrocede; -- said of diseases which gofrom one part of the body to another, as the gout.
retrocopulation: Copulation from behind. Sir T. Browne.
retrogressive: Passing from a higher to a lower condition; declining from amore perfect state of organization; regressive.
retromingent: Organized so as to discharge the urine backward.-- n. (Zoöl.)
retroversion: A turning or bending backward; also, the state of being turnedor bent backward; displacement backwards; as, retroversion of theuterus.
retry: To try (esp. judicially) a second time; as, to retry a case; toretry an accused person.
reurge: To urge again.
reversion: The returning of an esttate to the grantor or his heirs, byoperation of law, after the grant has terminated; hence, the residueof an estate left in the proprietor or owner thereof, to take effectin possession, by operation of law, after the termination of alimited or less estate carved out of it and conveyed by him. Kent.
revertible: Capable of, or admitting of, reverting or being reverted; as, arevertible estate.
revie: To meet a wager on, as on the taking of a trick, with a higherwager. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
revise: To compare (a proof) with a previous proof of the same matter,and mark again such errors as have not been corrected in the type.
reviser: One who revises.
revocate: To recall; to call back. [Obs.]
revolter: One who revolts.
revulse: To pull back with force. [R.] Cowper.
rew: A row. [Obs.] Chaucer. "A rew of sundry colored stones."Chapman.
reyse: To raise. [Obs.] Chaucer.
rhabdocoela: A suborder of Turbellaria including those that have a simplecylindrical, or saclike, stomach, without an intestine.
rhea: The ramie or grass-cloth plant. See Grass-cloth plant, underGrass.
rheostat: A contrivance for adjusting or regulating the strength ofelectrical currents, operating usually by the intercalation ofresistance which can be varied at will. Wheatstone. --Rhe`o*stat"ic,a.
rhetorication: Rhetorical amplification. [Obs.] Waterland.
rheumatism: A general disease characterized by painful, often multiple,local inflammations, usually affecting the joints and muscles, butalso extending sometimes to the deeper organs, as the heart.Inflammatory rheumatism (Med.), acute rheumatism attended with fever,and attacking usually the larger joints, which become swollen, hot,and very painful.-- Rheumatism root. (Bot.) See Twinleaf.
rheumatismoid: Of or resembling rheum or rheumatism.
rhinology: The science which treats of the nose, and its diseases.
rhinoscopic: Of or pertaining to rhinoscopy.
rhizocephala: A division of Pectostraca including saclike parasites ofCrustacea. They adhere by rootlike extensions of the head. SeeIllusration in Appendix.
rhizoid: A rootlike appendage.
rhizophagous: Feeding on roots; root-eating.
rhododendron: A genus of shrubs or small trees, often having handsomeevergreen leaves, and remarkable for the beauty of their flowers;rosebay.
rhodophane: The red pigment contained in the inner segments of the cones ofthe retina in animals. See Chromophane. W. KÜhne.
rhomb: An equilateral parallelogram, or quadrilateral figure whosesides are equal and the opposite sides parallel. The angles may beunequal, two being obtuse and two acute, as in the cut, or the anglesmay be equal, in which case it is usually called a square.
rhonchus: An adventitious whistling or snoring sound heard onauscultation of the chest when the air channels are partiallyobstructed. By some writers the term rhonchus is used as equivalentto râle in its widest sense. See Râle.
rhopalocera: A division of Lepidoptera including all the butterflies. Theydiffer from other Lepidoptera in having club-shaped antennæ.
rhysimeter: An instrument, acting on the principle of Pitot's tube, formeasuring the velocity of a fluid current, the speed of a ship, etc.
rhytina: See Rytina.
riband: See Ribbon. Riband jasper (Min.), a variety of jasper havingstripes of different colors, as red and green.
ricinoleic: Pertaining to, or designating, a fatty acid analogous to oleicacid, obtained from castor oil as an oily substance, Cricinolic.
ricinolein: The glycerin salt of ricinoleic acid, occuring as acharacteristic constituent of castor oil; -- formerly called palmin.
ridiculer: One who ridicules.
riffraff: Sweepings; refuse; the lowest order of society. Beau & Fl.
rig: A ridge. [Prov. or Scott.]
rigescent: Growing stiff or numb.
righteoused: Made righteous. [Obs.]
rigor: A sense of chilliness, with contraction of the skin; aconvulsive shuddering or tremor, as in the chill preceeding a fever.Rigor caloris ( Etym
rindy: Having a rind or skin. Ash.
ringstraked: Ring-streaked.Cattle ringstraked, speckled, and spotted. Gen. xxx. 39.
ringtoss: A game in which the object is to toss a ring so that it willcatch upon an upright stick.
rinking: Skating in a rink. [Colloq.]
ripieno: Filling up; supplementary; supernumerary; -- a term applied tothose instruments which only swell the mass or tutti of an orchestra,but are not obbligato.
ripple: An implement, with teeth like those of a comb, for removing theseeds and seed vessels from flax, broom corn, etc.
ripplingly: In a rippling manner.
riptowel: A gratuity given to tenants after they had reaped their lord'scorn. [Obs.]
rising: More than; exceeding; upwards of; as, a horse rising six yearsof age. [Colloq. & Low, U.S.]
ritual: Of or pertaining to rites or ritual; as, ritual service orsacrifices; the ritual law.
rivalry: The act of rivaling, or the state of being a rival; acompetition. "Keen contention and eager rivalries." Jeffrey.
robert: See Herb Robert, under Herb.
rochelime: Lime in the lump after it is burned; quicklime. [Eng.]
rochet: A linen garment resembling the surplise, but with narrowersleeves, also without sleeves, worn by bishops, and by some otherecclesiastical dignitaries, in certain religious ceremonies.They see no difference between an idler with a hat and nationalcockade, and an idler in a cowl or in a rochet. Burke.
rocketer: A bird, especially a pheasant, which, being flushed, risesstraight in the air like a rocket. [Eng.]
rockless: Being without rocks. Dryden.
rococo: A florid style of ornamentation which prevailed in Europe inthe latter part of the eighteenth century.
rody: Ruddy. [Obs.] Chaucer.
rogue: A vagrant; an idle, sturdy beggar; a vagabond; a tramp.
roial: Royal. [Obs.] Chaucer.
romanish: Pertaining to Romanism.
romanticism: A fondness for romantic characteristics or peculiarities;specifically, in modern literature, an aiming at romantic effects; --applied to the productions of a school of writers who sought torevive certain mediHe [Lessing] may be said to have begun the revolt from pseudo-classicism in poetry, and to have been thus unconsciously the founderof romanticism. Lowell.
romble: Rumble. [Obs.] Chaucer.
romekin: A drinking cup. [Written also romkin.] [Obs.] Halliwell.
rompish: Given to rude play; inclined to romp. --- Romp"ish, adv.-- Romp"ish*ness, n.
rong: imp. & p. p. of Ring. Chaucer.
ront: A runt. [Obs.] Spenser.
rooftree: The beam in the angle of a roof; hence, the roof itself.Now for me the woods may wither, now for me the rooftree fall.Tennyson.
rook: Mist; fog. See Roke. [Obs.]
room: To occupy a room or rooms; to lodge; as, they arranged to roomtogether.
roomful: Abounding with room or rooms; roomy. "A roomful house." [R.]Donne.
roominess: The quality or state of being roomy; spaciousness; as, theroominess of a hall.
roomy: Having ample room; spacious; large; as, a roomy mansion; aroomy deck. Dryden.
root: To turn up or to dig out with the snout; as, the swine rootsthe earth.
rorifluent: Flowing with dew. [R.]
rosacic: Pertaining to, or designating, an acid (called also lithicacid) found in certain red precipitates of urine. See Uric. [Obs.]
rosalgar: realgar. [Obs.] chaucer.
rosefinch: Any one of numerous species of Asiatic finches of the generaCarpodacus, and Propasser, and allied genera, in which the male ismore or less colored with rose red.
roset: A red color used by painters. Peacham.
rostelliform: Having the form of a rostellum, or small beak.
rostriform: Having the form of a beak.
rotalite: Any fossil foraminifer of the genus Rotalia, abundant in thechalk formation. See Illust. under Rhizopod.
rotche: A very small arctic sea bird (Mergulus alle, or Alle alle)common on both coasts of the Atlantic in winter; -- called alsolittle auk, dovekie, rotch, rotchie, and sea dove.
rother: Bovine.-- n.
rotifer: One of the Rotifera. See Illust. in Appendix.
rotten: Having rotted; putrid; decayed; as, a rotten apple; rottenmeat. Hence:(a) Offensive to the smell; fetid; disgusting.You common cry or curs! whose breath I hate As reek of the rottenfens. Shak.
roturier: A person who is not of noble birth; specif., a freeman whoduring the prevalence of feudalism held allodial land.
roughcaster: One who roughcasts.
roughtail: Any species of small ground snakes of the family Uropeltidæ; --so called from their rough tails.
roumanian: Of or pertaining to Roumania.
routinism: the practice of doing things with undiscriminating, mechanicalregularity.
routish: Uproarious; riotous. [Obs.]
rown: see Roun. [Obs.] Chaucer.
royalize: to make royal. Shak.
rubbly: Relating to, or containing, rubble.
ruching: A ruche, or ruches collectively.
rudderhead: The upper end of the rudderpost, to which the tiller isattashed.
ruddily: In a ruddy manner. Byron.
ruddy: To make ruddy. [R.] Sir W. Scott.
rudesby: An uncivil, turbulent fellow. [Obs.] Shak.
rudolphine: Pertaining to, or designating, a set of astronomical tablescomputed by Kepler, and founded on the observations of Tycho Brahe; -- so named from Rudolph II., emperor of Germany.
ruelle: A private circle or assembly at a private house; a circle.[Obs.] Dryden.
ruffianous: Ruffianly. [Obs.] Chapman.
ruminate: Having a hard albumen penetrated by irregular channels filledwith softer matter, as the nutmeg and the seeds of the North Americanpapaw.
rumply: Rumpled. Carlyle.
rumseller: One who sells rum; one who deals in intoxicating liquors;especially, one who sells spirituous beverages at retail.
runic: Of or pertaining to a rune, to runes, or to the Norsemen; as,runic verses; runic letters; runic names; runic rhyme. Runic staff.See Clog almanac, under Clog.-- Runic wand, a willow wand bearing runes, formerly thought to havebeen used by the heathen tribes of Northern Europe in magicalceremonies.
runnel: A rivulet or small brook.Buddling rundels joined the sound. Collins.By the very sides of the way . . . there are slow runnels, in whichone can see the minnows swimming. Masson.
rupellary: Rocky. [Obs.] "This rupellary nidary." Evelyn.
rusine: Of, like, or pertaining to, a deer of the genus Rusa, whichincludes the sambur deer (Rusa Aristotelis) of India. Rusine antler(Zoöl.), an antler with the brow tyne simple, and the beam forked atthe tip.
rusma: A depilatory made of orpiment and quicklime, and used by theTurks. See Rhusma.
russeting: See Russet, n., 2 and 4.
russify: To Russianize; as, to Russify conquered tribes.
ruthenic: Pertaining to, or containing, ruthenium; specifically,designating those compounds in which it has a higher valence ascontrasted with ruthenious compounds.
rutty: Ruttish; lustful.
sabella: A genus of tubiculous annelids having a circle of plumose gillsaround head.
sabellianism: The doctrines or tenets of Sabellius. See Sabellian, n.
sabulous: Sandy; gritty.
saccate: Having the form of a sack or pouch; furnished with a sack orpouch, as a petal.
saccharimeter: An instrument for ascertain the quantity of saccharine matterin any solution, as the juice of a plant, or brewers' and distillers'worts. [Written also saccharometer.]
saccharous: Saccharine.
saccus: A sac.
sacerdotally: In a sacerdotal manner.
sack: A anme formerly given to various dry Spanish wines. "Sherrissack." Shak. Sack posset, a posset made of sack, and some otheringredients.
sacker: One who sacks; one who takes part in the storm and pillage of atown.
sackful: As much as a sack will hold.
sacral: Of or pertaining to the sacrum; in the region of the sacrum.
sacramentalist: One who holds the doctrine of the real objective presence ofChrist;s body and blood in the holy eucharist. Shipley.
sacramentally: In a sacrament manner.
sacristy: A apartment in a church where the sacred utensils, vestments,etc., are kept; a vestry.
saddler: One who makes saddles.
sag: To cause to bend or give way; to load.
sagenitic: Resembling sagenite; -- applied to quartz when containingacicular crystals of other minerals, most commonly rutile, alsotourmaline, actinolite, and the like.
said: imp. & p. p. of Say.
saiga: An antelope (Saiga Tartarica) native of the plains of Siberiaand Eastern Russia. The male has erect annulated horns, and tufts oflong hair beneath the eyes and ears.
sailing: The art of managing a vessel; seamanship; navigation; as,globular sailing; oblique sailing.
sailor: One who follows the business of navigating ships or othervessels; one who understands the practical management of ships; oneof the crew of a vessel; a mariner; a common seaman.
sain: Said. Shak.
sajene: Same as Sagene.
salebrosity: Roughness or ruggedness. [Obs.] Feltham.
salicaceous: Belonging or relating to the willow.
salifiable: Capable of neutralizing an acid to form a salt; -- said ofbases; thus, ammonia is salifiable.
saligenin: A phenol alcohol obtained, by the decomposition of salicin, asa white crystalline substance; -- called also hydroxy-benzyl alcohol.
sallenders: An eruption on the hind leg of a horse. [Written alsosellanders, and sellenders.]On the inside of the hock, or a little below it, as well as at thebend of the knee, there is occasionally a scurfy eruption called"mallenders" in the fore leg, and "sallenders" in the hind leg.Youatt.
sallet: A light kind of helmet, with or without a visor, introducedduring the 15th century. [Written also salade.]Then he must have a sallet wherewith his head may be saved. Latimer.
salpa: A genus of transparent, tubular, free-swimming oceanictunicates found abundantly in all the warmer latitudes. SeeIllustration in Appendix.
saltly: With taste of salt; in a salt manner.
salutiferously: Salutarily. [R.]
salvability: The quality or condition of being salvable; salvableness. [R.]In the Latin scheme of redemption, salvability was not possibleoutside the communion of the visible organization. A. V. G. Allen.
salvatory: A place where things are preserved; a repository. [R.] Sir M.Hale.
salvo: An exception; a reservation; an excuse.They admit many salvos, cautions, and reservations. Eilon Basilike.
sam: Together. [Obs.] "All in that city sam." Spenser.
samarra: See Simar.
samarskite: A rare mineral having a velvet-black color and submetallicluster. It is a niobate of uranium, iron, and the yttrium and ceriummetals.
samlet: The parr.
sanable: Capable of being healed or cured; susceptible of remedy.
sanableness: The quality of being sanable.
sandemanianism: The faith or system of the Sandemanians. A. Fuller.
sandfish: A small marine fish of the Pacific coast of North America(Trichodon trichodon) which buries itself in the sand.
sandiver: A whitish substance which is cast up, as a scum, from thematerials of glass in fusion, and, floating on the top, is skimmedoff; -- called also glass gall. [Formerly written also sandever.]
sang: imp. of Sing.
sanguification: The production of blood; the conversion of the products ofdigestion into blood; hematosis.
sanguifluous: Flowing or running with blood.
sanguinaria: A genus of plants of the Poppy family.
sanitary: Of or pertaining to health; designed to secure or preservehealth; relating to the preservation or restoration of health;hygienic; as, sanitary regulations. See the Note under Sanatory.Sanitary Commission. See under Commission.
sank: imp. of Sink.
sans: Without; deprived or destitute of. Rarely used as an Englishword. "Sans fail." Chaucer.Sans teeth, sans eyes, sans taste, sans everything. Shak.
santalaceous: Of or pertaining to a natural order of plants (Santalaceæ), ofwhich the genus Santalum is the type, and which includes the buffalonut and a few other North American plants, and many peculiar plantsof the southern hemisphere.
santoninic: Of or pertaining to santonin; -- used specifically to designatean acid not known in the free state, but obtained in its salts.
sapiential: Having or affording wisdom.-- Sa`pi*en"tial*ly, adv.The sapiential books of the Old [Testament]. Jer. Taylor.
saponite: A hydrous silicate of magnesia and aluminia. It occurs in soft,soapy, amorphous masses, filling veins in serpentine and cavities intrap rock.
sarcastically: In a sarcastic manner.
sarcin: Same as Hypoxanthin.
sarcocele: Any solid tumor of the testicle.
sarcophagy: The practice of eating flesh.
sarcotic: Producing or promoting the growth of flesh. [R.] -- n.
sardius: A precious stone, probably a carnelian, one of which was set inAaron's breastplate. Ex. xxviii. 17.
saree: The principal garment of a Hindoo woman. It consists of a longpiece of cloth, which is wrapped round the middle of the body, aportion being arranged to hang down in front, and the remainderpassed across the bosom over the left shoulder.
sargassum: A genus of algæ including the gulf weed.
sari: Same as Saree.
sarmentaceous: Bearing sarments, or runners, as the strawberry.
sarpo: A large toadfish the Southern United States and the Gulf ofMexico (Batrachus tau, var. pardus).
sashery: A collection of sashes; ornamentation by means of sashes. [R.]Distinguished by their sasheries and insignia. Carlyle.
sassanage: Stones left after sifting. Smart.
satan: The grand adversary of man; The Devil, or Prince of darkness;the chief of the fallen angels; the archfiend.I beheld Satan as lightning fall from heaven. Luke x. 18.
satisfiable: That may be satisfied.
satrapess: A female satrap.
satrapical: Satrapal. [R.]
saturday: The seventh or last day of the week; the day following Fridayand preceding Sunday.
saturnist: A person of a dull, grave, gloomy temperament. W. browne.
sauropoda: An extinct order of herbivorous dinosaurs having the feet of asaurian type, instead of birdlike, as they are in many dinosaurs. Itincludes the Largest Known land animals, belonging to Brontosaurus,Camarasaurus, and alied genera. See Illustration in Appendix.
sauterne: A white wine made in the district of sauterne, France.
sawtooth: An arctic seal (Lobodon carcinophaga), having the molarsserrated; -- called also crabeating seal.
saxicava: Any species of marine bivalve shells of the genus Saxicava.Some of the species are noted for their power of boring holes inlimestone and similar rocks.
saynd: obs. p. p. of Senge, to singe. Chaucer.
scabies: The itch.
scabredity: Roughness; ruggedness. [Obs.] Burton.
scala: A machine formerly employed for reducing dislocations of thehumerus.
scallop: Any one of numerous species of marine bivalve mollusks of thegenus Pecten and allied genera of the family Pectinidæ. The shell isusually radially ribbed, and the edge is therefore often undulated ina characteristic manner. The large adductor muscle of some thespecies is much used as food. One species (Vola Jacobæus) occurs onthe coast of Palestine, and its shell was formerly worn by pilgrimsas a mark that they had been to the Holy Land. Called also fan shell.See Pecten, 2.
scaly: Composed of scales lying over each other; as, a scaly bulb;covered with scales; as, a scaly stem. Scaly ant-eater (Zoöl.), thepangolin.
scambler: 1. One who scambles.
scant: To fail, of become less; to scantle; as, the wind scants.
scantily: In a scanty manner; not fully; not plentifully; sparingly;parsimoniously.His mind was very scantily stored with materials. Macaulay.
scarecrow: The black tern. [Prov. Eng.]
scarify: To stir the surface soil of, as a field.
scaturient: Gushing forth; full to overflowing; effusive. [R.]A pen so scaturient and unretentive. Sir W. Scott.
scavenge: To cleanse, as streets, from filth. C. Kingsley.
scenary: Scenery. [Obs.] Dryden.
sceneman: The man who manages the movable scenes in a theater.
sceptral: Of or pertaining to a scepter; like a scepter.
scheik: See Sheik.
schiedam: Holland gin made at Schiedam in the Netherlands.
schism: Division or separation; specifically (Eccl.), permanentdivision or separation in the Christian church; breach of unity amongpeople of the same religious faith; the offense of seeking to producedivision in a church without justifiable cause.Set bounds to our passions by reason, to our errors by truth, and toour schisms by charity. Eikon Basilike.
schizocoelous: Pertaining to, or of the nature of, a schizocoele.
schizognath: Any bird with a schizognathous palate.
schizognathous: Having the maxillo-palatine bones separate from each other andfrom the vomer, which is pointed in front, as in the gulls, snipes,grouse, and many other birds.
schnorrer: Among the Jews, a beggar.
schoolery: Something taught; precepts; schooling. [Obs.] penser.
schooling: Collecting or running in schools or shoals.Schooling species like the herring and menhaden. G. B. Goode.
schoolmate: A pupil who attends the same school as another.
schoolmistress: A woman who governs and teaches a school; a female school-teacher.
scillain: A glucoside extracted from squill (Scilla) as a light poroussubstance.
scink: A skink.
scioptic: Of or pertaining to an optical arrangement for forming imagesin a darkened room, usually called scioptic ball. Scioptic ball(Opt.), the lens of a camera obscura mounted in a wooden ball whichfits a socket in a window shutter so as to be readily turned, likethe eye, to different parts of the landscape.
sciopticon: A kind of magic lantorn.
sclaundre: Slander. [Obs.] Chaucer.
sclavic: Same as Slavic.
sclender: Slender. [Obs.] Chaucer.
scleragogy: Severe discipline. [Obs.] Bp. Hacket.
sclerotium: A hardened body formed by certain fungi, as by the Clavicepspurpurea, which produced ergot.
scoffer: One who scoffs. 2 Pet. iii. 3.
scoffery: The act of scoffing; scoffing conduct; mockery. Holinshed.
scolding: a. & n. from Scold, v. Scolding bridle, an iron frame. SeeBrank, n., 2.
scoliosis: A lateral curvature of the spine.
scollop: See Scallop.
scooper: The avocet; -- so called because it scoops up the mud to obtainfood.
scot: A name for a horse. [Obs.] Chaucer.
scotchman: A piece of wood or stiff hide placed over shrouds and otherrigging to prevent chafe by the running gear. Ham. Nav. Encyc.
scotist: A follower of (Joannes) Duns Scotus, the Franciscan scholastic(d. 1308), who maintained certain doctrines in philosophy andtheology, in opposition to the Thomists, or followers of ThomasAquinas, the Dominican scholastic.
scotograph: An instrument for writing in the dark, or without seeing.Maunder.
scotticism: An idiom, or mode of expression, peculiar to Scotland orScotchmen.That, in short, in which the Scotticism of Scotsmen most intimatelyconsists, is the habit of emphasis. Masson.
scoundrel: A mean, worthless fellow; a rascal; a villain; a man withouthonor or virtue.Go, if your ancient, but ignoble bloodHas crept through soundrels ever since the flood. Pope.
scourage: Refuse water after scouring.
scratchweed: Cleavers.
scratchwork: See Scratch coat.
screable: Capable of being spit out. [Obs.] Bailey.
scree: A pebble; a stone; also, a heap of stones or rocky débris.[Prov. Eng.] Southey.
screenings: The refuse left after screening sand, coal, ashes, etc.
scrid: A screed; a shred; a fragment. [R.]
scrobicula: One of the smooth areas surrounding the tubercles of a seaurchin.
scrolled: Formed like a scroll; contained in a scroll; adorned withscrolls; as, scrolled work.
scrophulariaceous: Of or pertaining to a very large natural order of gamopetalousplants (Scrophulariaceæ, or Scrophularineæ), usually having irregulardidynamous flowers and a two-celled pod. The order includes themullein, foxglove, snapdragon, figwort, painted cup, yellow rattle,and some exotic trees, as the Paulownia.
scrotal: Of or pertaining to the scrotum; as, scrotal hernia.
scrubboard: A baseboard; a mopboard.
scruff: Scurf. [Obs.]
scrupulosity: The quality or state of being scruppulous; doubt; doubtfulnessrespecting decision or action; caution or tenderness from the far ofdoing wrong or ofending; nice regard to exactness and propierty;precision.The first sacrilege is looked on with horror; but when they have madethe breach, their scrupulosity soon retires. Dr. H. More.Careful, even to scrupulosity, . . . to keep their Sabbath. South.
scum: To form a scum; to become covered with scum. Also usedfiguratively.Life, and the interest of life, have stagnated and scummed over. A.K. H. Boyd.
scunner: To cause to loathe, or feel disgust at. [Scot. & Prov. Eng.]
scurfiness: Scurf.
scurfy: Having or producing scurf; covered with scurf; resemblingscurf.
scute: A bony scale of a reptile or fish; a large horny scale on theleg of a bird, or on the belly of a snake.
scutibranchian: One of the Scutibranchiata.
scytheman: One who uses a scythe; a mower. Macaulay.
sea: A great brazen laver in the temple at Jerusalem; -- so calledfrom its size.He made a molten sea of ten cubits from brim to brim, round incompass, and five cubits the height thereof. 2 Chron. iv. 2.
seafarer: One who follows the sea as a business; a mariner; a sailor.
seal: Any aquatic carnivorous mammal of the families Phocidæ andOtariidæ.
seamanlike: Having or showing the skill of a practical seaman.
seamark: Any elevated object on land which serves as a guide tomariners; a beacon; a landmark visible from the sea, as a hill, atree, a steeple, or the like. Shak.
searcher: One who, or that which, searhes or examines; a seeker; aninquirer; an examiner; a trier. Specifically:(a) Formerly, an officer in London appointed to examine the bodies ofthe dead, and report the cause of death. Graunt.(b) An officer of the customs whose business it is to search ships,merchandise, luggage, etc.(c) An inspector of leather. [Prov. Eng.](d) (Gun.) An instrument for examining the bore of a cannon, todetect cavities.(e) An implement for sampling butter; a butter trier.(j) (Med.) An instrument for feeling after calculi in the bladder,etc.
seashell: The shell of any marine mollusk.
seasonable: Occurring in good time, in due season, or in proper time forthe purpose; suitable to the season; opportune; timely; as, aseasonable supply of rain.Mercy is seasonable in the time of affliction. Ecclus. xxxv. 20.-- Sea"son*a*ble*ness, n.-- Sea"son*a*bly, adv.
seasonage: A seasoning. [Obs.] outh.
seat: A part or surface on which another part or surface rests; as, avalve seat. Seat worm (Zoöl.), the pinworm.
sebiparous: Same as Sebiferous.
secancy: A cutting; an intersection; as, the point of secancy of oneline by another. [R.] Davies & Peck (Math. Dict. ).
secco: Dry. Secco painting, or Painting in secco, painting on dryplaster, as distinguished from fresco painting, which is on wet orfresh plaster.
secernment: The act or process of secreting.
secretiveness: The faculty or propensity which impels to reserve, secrecy, orconcealment.
secularity: Supreme attention to the things of the present life;worldliness.A secularity of character which makes Christianity and its principaldoctrines distasteful or unintelligible. I. Taylor.
secularization: The act of rendering secular, or the state of being renderedsecular; conversion from regular or monastic to secular; conversionfrom religious to lay or secular possession and uses; as, thesecularization of church property.
secularly: In a secular or worldly manner.
sedation: The act of calming, or the state of being calm. [R.] Coles.
sedative: Tending to calm, moderate, or tranquilize; specifically (Med.),allaying irritability and irritation; assuaging pain.
sedged: Made or composed of sedge.With your sedged crowns and ever-harmless looks. Shak.
seecatch: A full-grown male fur seal. [Alaska]
seemless: Unseemly. [Obs.] Spenser.
segregate: Separated from others of the same kind.
seigniorial: Same as Seigneurial.
seining: Fishing with a seine.
seismograph: An apparatus for registering the shocks and undulatory motionsof earthquakes.
seismological: Of or pertaining to seismology.-- Seis`mo*log"ic*al*ly, adv.
seismometric: Of or pertaining to seismometry, or seismometer; as,seismometric instruments; seismometric measurements.
seity: Something peculiar to one's self. [R.] Tatler.
seize: To take possession of by virtue of a warrant or other legalauthority; as, the sheriff seized the debtor's goods.
seizure: Sitting, as a lion or other beast. Sejant rampant, sitting withthe forefeet lifted up. Wright.
sejunction: The act of disjoining, or the state of being disjoined. [Obs.]Bp. Pearson.
seld: Rare; uncommon; unusual. [Obs.] Chaucer. Spenser.
selectness: The quality or state of being select.
selenious: Of, pertaining to, or containing, selenium; specifically,designating those compounds in which the element has a lower valenceas contrasted with selenic compounds.
selenographist: A selenographer.
selfsame: Precisely the same; the very same; identical.His servant was healed in the selfsame hour. Matt. viii. 13.
semblable: Like; similar; resembling. [Obs.] Chaucer.
semiangle: The half of a given, or measuring, angle.
semiannual: Half-yearly.
semibreve: A note of half the time or duration of the breve; -- nowusually called a whole note. It is the longest note in general use.
semicastrate: To deprive of one testicle.-- Sem`i*cas*tra"tion,n.
semicentennial: Of or pertaining to half of a century, or a period of fiftyyears; as, a semicentennial commemoration.
semicircled: Semicircular. Shak.
semicolon: The punctuation mark [;] indicating a separation between partsor members of a sentence more distinct than that marked by a comma.
semidemiquaver: A demisemiquaver; a thirty-second note.
semifloscular: Semiflosculous.
semiindurated: Imperfectly indurated or hardened.
semilor: A yellowish alloy of copper and zinc. See Simplor.
semimetallic: Of or pertaining to a semimetal; possessing metallic propertiesin an inferior degree; resembling metal.
seminification: Propagation from seed. [R.] Sir M. Hale.
seminymph: The pupa of insects which undergo only a slight change inpassing to the imago state.
semioccasionally: Once in a while; on rare occasions. [Colloq. U. S.]
semiped: A half foot in poetry.
semiphlogisticated: Partially impregnated with phlogiston.
semiplume: A feather which has a plumelike web, with the shaft of anordinary feather.
semiquintile: An aspect of the planets when distant from each other half ofthe quintile, or thirty-six degrees.
semitontine: Lit., half-tontine; -- used to designate a form of tontine lifeinsurance. See Tontine insurance. --Sem`i*ton*tine", n.
semivitrified: Half or imperfectly vitrified; partially converted into glass.
semolina: The fine, hard parts of wheat, rounded by the attrition of themillstones, -- used in cookery.
sempiterne: Sempiternal. [Obs.]
sempstressy: Seamstressy.
senegin: A substance extracted from the rootstock of the Polygala Senega(Seneca root), and probably identical with polygalic acid.
senge: To singe. [Obs.] Chaucer.
sensory: Same as Sensorium.
sepaloid: Like a sepal, or a division of a calyx.
separatism: The character or act of a separatist; disposition to withdrawfrom a church; the practice of so withdrawing.
separator: One who, or that which, separates. Specifically:(a) (Steam Boilers) A device for depriving steam of particles ofwater mixed with it.(b) (Mining) An apparatus for sorting pulverized ores into grades, orseparating them from gangue. (c) (Weaving)
separatory: Separative. Cheyne.
separatrix: The decimal point; the dot placed at the left of a decimalfraction, to separate it from the whole number which it follows. Theterm is sometimes also applied to other marks of separation.
sepawn: See Supawn. [Local, U.S.]
sepelition: Burial. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
sepiostare: The bone or shell of cuttlefish. See Illust. under Cuttlefish.
septane: See Heptane. [R.]
septangle: A figure which has seven angles; a heptagon. [R.]
septenate: Having parts in sevens; heptamerous.
septentrial: Septentrional. Drayton.
septentrionally: Northerly.
sequester: To separate from the owner for a time; to take from parties incontroversy and put into the possession of an indifferent person; toseize or take possession of, as property belonging to another, andhold it till the profits have paid the demand for which it is taken,or till the owner has performed the decree of court, or clearshimself of contempt; in international law, to confiscate.Formerly the goods of a defendant in chancery were, in the lastresort, sequestered and detained to enforce the decrees of the court.And now the profits of a benefice are sequestered to pay the debts ofecclesiastics. Blackstone.
sequin: An old gold coin of Italy and Turkey. It was first struck atVenice about the end of the 13th century, and afterward in the otherItalian cities, and by the Levant trade was introduced into Turkey.It is worth about 9s. 3d. sterling, or about $2.25. The differentkinds vary somewhat in value. [Written also chequin, and zequin.]
seraphine: A wind instrument whose sounding parts are reeds, consisting ofa thin tongue of brass playing freely through a slot in a plate. Ithas a case, like a piano, and is played by means of a similarkeybord, the bellows being worked by the foot. The melodeon is aportable variety of this instrument.
seraskier: A general or commander of land forces in the Turkish empire;especially, the commander-in-chief of minister of war.
serf: A servant or slave employed in husbandry, and in some countriesattached to the soil and transferred with it, as formerly in Russia.In England, at least from the reign of Henry II, one only, and thatthe inferior species [of villeins], existed . . . But by the customsof France and Germany, persons in this abject state seem to have beencalled serfs, and distinguished from villeins, who were only bound tofixed payments and duties in respect of their lord, though, as itseems, without any legal redress if injured by him. Hallam.
serially: In a series, or regular order; in a serial manner; as, arrangedserially; published serially.
seriatim: In regular order; one after the other; severally.
sericite: A kind of muscovite occuring in silky scales having a fibrousstructure. It is characteristic of sericite schist.
serin: A European finch (Serinus hortulanus) closely related to thecanary.
serine: A white crystalline nitrogenous substance obtained by theaction of dilute sulphuric acid on silk gelatin.
sermoneer: A sermonizer. B. Jonson.
sermonizer: One who sermonizes.
serr: To crowd, press, or drive together. [Obs.] Bacon.
serried: Crowded; compact; dense; pressed together.Nor seemed it to relax their serried files. Milton.
serrula: The red-breasted merganser.
serviette: A table napkin.
servileness: Quality of being servile; servility.
servite: One of the order of the Religious Servants of the Holy Virgin,founded in Florence in 1223.
servitorship: The office, rank, or condition of a servitor. Boswell.
sestet: A piece of music composed for six voices or six instruments; asextet; -- called also sestuor. [Written also sestett, sestette.]
seten: obs. imp. pl. of Sit. Sat. Chaucer.
sethic: See Sothic.
setigerous: Covered with bristles; having or bearing a seta or setæ;setiferous; as, setigerous glands; a setigerous segment of anannelid; specifically (Bot.), tipped with a bristle.
setula: A small, short hair or bristle; a small seta.
seventeen: One more than sixteen; ten and seven added; as, seventeenyears.
seventeenth: An interval of two octaves and a third.
severable: Capable of being severed. Encyc. Dict.
sewel: A scarecrow, generally made of feathers tied to a string, hungup to prevent deer from breaking into a place. Halliwell.
sexdigitism: The state of having six fingers on a hand, or six toes on afoot.
sexless: Having no sex.
sexly: Pertaining to sex. [R.]Should I ascribe any of these things unto myself or my sexlyweakness, I were not worthy to live. Queen Elizabeth.
sextillion: According to the method of numeration (which is followed alsoin the United States), the number expressed by a unit with twenty-oneciphers annexed. According to the English method, a million raised tothe sixth power, or the number expressed by a unit with thirty-sixciphers annexed. See Numeration.
sexto: A book consisting of sheets each of which is folded into sixleaves.
shabbiness: The quality or state of being sghabby.
shadowiness: The quality or state of being shadowy.
shagged: Shaggy; rough. Milton.-- Shag"ged*ness, n. Dr. H. More.
shake: obs. p. p. of Shake. Chaucer.
shalli: See Challis.
shallowness: Quality or state of being shallow.
shaly: Resembling shale in structure.
shaman: A priest of Shamanism; a wizard among the Shamanists.
shapeliness: The quality or state of being shapely.
share: To have part; to receive a portion; to partake, enjoy, orsuffer with others.A right of inheritance gave every one a title to share in the goodsof his father. Locke.
sharock: An East Indian coin of the value of 12
sharp: Uttered in a whisper, or with the breath alone, without voice,as certain consonants, such as p, k, t, f; surd; nonvocal; aspirated.
sharper: A person who bargains closely, especially, one who cheats inbargains; a swinder; also, a cheating gamester.Sharpers, as pikes, prey upon their own kind. L'Estrange.
sharpling: A stickleback. [Prov. Eng.]
shave: obs. p. p. of Shave. Chaucer.His beard was shave as nigh as ever he can. Chaucer.
shaver: A tool or machine for shaving. A note shaver, a person who buysnotes at a discount greater than the legal rate of interest. [Cant,U.S.]
shebang: A jocosely depreciative name for a dwelling or shop.[Slang,U.S.]
sheepshank: A hitch by which a rope may be temporarily shortened.
sheetful: Enough to fill a sheet; as much as a sheet can hold.
shent: obs. 3d pers. sing. pres. of Shend, for shendeth. Chaucer.
shern: See Shearn. [Obs.]
shield: In lichens, a Hardened cup or disk surrounded by a rim andcontaining the fructification, or asci.
shift: To slip to one side of a ship, so as to destroy the equilibrum;-- said of ballast or cargo; as, the cargo shifted.
shipload: The load, or cargo, of a ship.
shittle: A shuttle. [Obs.] Chapman.
shoebill: A large African wading bird (Balæniceps rex) allied to thestorks and herons, and remarkable for its enormous broad swollenbill. It inhabits the valley of the White Nile. See Illust. (l.) ofBeak.
shogun: A title originally conferred by the Mikado on the militarygovernor of the eastern provinces of Japan. By gradual usurpation ofpower the Shoguns (known to foreigners as Tycoons) became finally thevirtual rulers of Japan. The title was abolished in 1867. [Writtenvariously, Shiogun, Shiogoon, etc.]
shole: A plank fixed beneath an object, as beneath the rudder of avessel, to protect it from injury; a plank on the ground under theend of a shore or the like.
shooting: Of or pertaining to shooting; for shooting; darting. Shootingboard (Joinery), a fixture used in planing or shooting the edge of aboard, by means of which the plane is guided and the board held true.-- Shooting box, a small house in the country for use in theshooting season. Prof. Wilson.-- Shooting gallery, a range, usually covered, with targets forpractice with firearms.-- Shooting iron, a firearm. [Slang, U.S.] -- Shooting star. (a)(Astron.) A starlike, luminous meteor, that, appearing suddenly,darts quickly across some portion of the sky, and then as suddenlydisappears, leaving sometimes, for a few seconds, a luminous train, -- called also falling star. Shooting stars are small cosmical bodieswhich encounter the earth in its annual revolution, and which becomevisible by coming with planetary velocity into the upper regions ofthe atmosphere. At certain periods, as on the 13th of November and10th of August, they appear for a few hours in great numbers,apparently diverging from some point in the heavens, such displaysbeing known as meteoric showers, or star showers. These bodies,before encountering the earth, were moving in orbits closely alliedto the orbits of comets. See Leonids, Perseids. (b) (Bot.) TheAmerican cowslip (Dodecatheon Meadia). See under Cowslip.-- Shooting stick (Print.), a tapering piece of wood or iron, usedby printers to drive up the quoins in the chase. Hansard.
shopkeeper: A trader who sells goods in a shop, or by retail; -- indistinction from one who sells by wholesale. Addison.
shorthand: A compendious and rapid method or writing by substitutingcharacters, abbreviations, or symbols, for letters, words, etc.;short writing; stenography. See Illust. under Phonography.
shorthorn: One of a breed of large, heavy domestic cattle having shorthorns. The breed was developed in England.
shortwing: Any one of several species of small wrenlike Asiatic birdshaving short wings and a short tail. They belong to Brachypterix,Callene, and allied genera.
shrewish: having the qualities of a shrew; having a scolding disposition;froward; peevish.My wife is shrewish when I keep not hours. Shak.-- Shrew"ish*ly, adv.-- Shrew"ish*ness, n.
shrieval: Of or pertaining to a sheriff.
shroffage: The examination of coins, and the separation of the good fromthe debased. [East Indies]
shroud: A set of ropes serving as stays to support the masts. The lowershrouds are secured to the sides of vessels by heavy iron bolts andare passed around the head of the lower masts.
shrovetide: The days immediately preceding Ash Widnesday, especially theperiod between the evening before Quinguagesima Sunday and themorning of Ash Wednesday.
shroving: The festivity of Shrovetide. [Obs.]
shrow: A shrew. [Obs.] Shak.
shude: The husks and other refuse of rice mills, used to adulterateoil cake, or linseed cake.
shumac: Sumac.
shunless: Not to be shunned; inevitable; unavoidable. [R.] "Shunlessdestiny." Shak.
siciliano: A Sicilian dance, resembling the pastorale, set to a ratherslow and graceful melody in 12-8 or 6-8 measure; also, the music tothe dance.
siderolite: A kind of meteorite. See under Meteorite.
sierra: A ridge of mountain and craggy rocks, with a serrated orirregular outline; as, the Sierra Nevada.The wild sierra overhead. Whitter.
sifter: Any lamellirostral bird, as a duck or goose; -- so calledbecause it sifts or strains its food from the water and mud by meansof the lamell
sigaultian: Pertaining to Sigault, a French physician. See Symphyseotomy.
sigillated: Decorated by means of stamps; -- said of pottery.
signality: The quality or state of being signal or remarkable. [Obs.] SirT. Browne.
signation: Sign given; marking. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
signatory: A signer; one who signs or subscribes; as, a conference ofsignatories.
significator: One who, or that which, signifies.In this diagram there was one significator which pressed remarkablyupon our astrologer's attention. Sir W. Scott.
signior: Sir; Mr. The English form and pronunciation for the ItalianSignor and the Spanish Señor.
signiorship: State or position of a signior.
signora: Madam; Mrs; -- a title of address or respect among theItalians.
sikhs: A religious sect noted for warlike traits, founded in thePunjab at the end of the 15th century.
silentious: Habitually silent; taciturn; reticent. [R.]
silicious: See Siliceous.
silicispongiae: Same as Silicoidea.
siliciureted: Combined or impregnated with silicon. [Obsoles.] Siliciuretedhydrogen. (Chem.) Hydrogen silicide. [Obs.]
siliculose: Bearing silicles; pertaining to, or resembling, silicles.
silkworm: The larva of any one of numerous species of bombycid moths,which spins a large amount of strong silk in constructing its cocoonbefore changing to a pupa.
siller: Silver. [Scot.]
silverfin: A small North American fresh-water cyprinoid fish (NotropisWhipplei).
silviculture: See Sylviculture.
similitudinary: Involving or expressing similitude. [Obs.] Coke.
simious: Of or pertaining to the Simian.That strange simious, schoolboy passion of giving pain to others.Sydney Smith.
simmer: To boil gently, or with a gentle hissing; to begin to boil.I simmer as liquor doth on the fire before it beginneth to boil.Palsgrave.
simpless: Simplicity; silliness. [Obs.] Spenser.
simplify: To make simple; to make less complex; to make clear by givingthe explanation for; to show an easier or shorter process for doingor making.The collection of duties is drawn to a point, and so far simplified.A. Hamilton.It is important, in scientific pursuits, to be caitious insimplifying our deductions. W. Nicholson.
sinapate: A salt of sinapic acid.
since: From the time of; in or during the time subsequent to;subsequently to; after; -- usually with a past event or time for theobject.The Lord hath blessed thee, since my coming. Gen. xxx. 30.I have a model by which he build a nobler poem than any extant sincethe ancients. Dryden.
sincerely: In a sincere manner. Specifically:(a) Purely; without alloy. Milton.(b) Honestly; unfeignedly; without dissimulation; as, to speak one'smind sincerely; to love virtue sincerely.
sincerity: The quality or state of being sincere; honesty of mind orintention; freedom from simulation, hypocrisy, disguise, or falsepretense; sincereness.I protest, in the sincerity of love. Shak.Sincerity is a duty no less plain than important. Knox.
sindi: A native of Sind, India, esp. one of the native Hindoo stock.
sine: Without.
sinigrin: A glucoside found in the seeds of black mustard (Brassicanigra, formerly Sinapis nigra) It resembles sinalbin, and consists ofa potassium salt of myronic acid.
sinistrorse: Turning to the left (of the spectator) in the ascending line; -- the opposite of dextrorse. See Dextrorse.
sinologue: A student of Chinese; one versed in the Chinese language,literature, and history.
sinuation: A winding or bending in and out.
siphoniferous: Siphon-bearing, as the shell of the nautilus and othercephalopods.
sistren: Sisters. [Obs.] Chaucer.
sited: Having a site; situated. [Obs.][The garden] sited was in fruitful soil. Chaucer.
sithen: Since; afterwards. See 1st Sith. [Obs.]Fortune was first friend and sithen foe. Chaucer.
situs: The method in which the parts of a plant are arranged; also,the position of the parts. Henslow.
skald: See 5th Scald.
skaldic: See Scaldic. Max Müller.
skegger: The parr. Walton.
skeine: See Skean.
skene: See Skean. C. Kingsley.
sketchy: Containing only an outline or rough form; being in the mannerof a sketch; incomplete.The execution is sketchy throughout; the head, in particular, is leftin the rough. J. S. Harford.
skid: Large fenders hung over a vessel's side to protect it inhandling a cargo. Totten.(b) One of a pair of timbers or bars, usually arranged so as to forman inclined plane, as form a wagon to a door, along which anything ismoved by sliding or rolling.(c) One of a pair of horizontal rails or timbers for supportinganything, as a boat, a barrel, etc.
skied: imp. & p. p. of Sky, v. t.
skiffling: Rough dressing by knocking off knobs or projections; knobbing.
skimp: To save; to be parsimonious or niggardly. [Prov. Eng. & Colloq.U.S.]
skirl: To utter in a shrill tone; to scream. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.]
skoptsy: See Raskolnik.
skorodite: See Scorodite.
skreen: See Screen. [Obs.]
skrimp: See Scrimp.
skunk: Any one of several species of American musteline carnivores ofthe genus Mephitis and allied genera. They have two glands near theanus, secreting an extremely fetid liquid, which the animal ejects atpleasure as a means of defense.
skyman: An aëronaut. [Slang]
slabbiness: Quality of being slabby.
slander: Formerly, defamation generally, whether oral or written; inmodern usage, defamation by words spoken; utterance of false,malicious, and defamatory words, tending to the damage and derogationof another; calumny. See the Note under Defamation. Burril.
slanginess: Quality of being slangy.
slank: imp. & p. p. of Slink.
slaty: Resembling slate; having the nature, appearance, or properties,of slate; composed of thin parallel plates, capable of beingseparated by splitting; as, a slaty color or texture. Slaty cleavage(Min.), cleavage, as of rocks, into thin leaves or plates, like thoseof slate; -- applied especially to those cases in which the planes ofcleavage are not parallel to the planes of stratification. It is nowbelieved to be caused by the compression which the strata haveundergone.-- Slaty gneiss (Min.), a variety of gneiss in which the scales ofmica or crystals of hornblende, which are usually minute, form thinlaminæ, rendering the rock easily cleavable.
slaughter: The act of killing. Specifically:(a) The extensive, violent, bloody, or wanton destruction of life;carnage.On war and mutual slaughter bent. Milton.
slavey: A maidservant. [Colloq. & Jocose Eng.]
sleaved: Raw; not spun or wrought; as, sleaved thread or silk.Holinshed.
slee: To slay. [Obs.] Chaucer.
slew: imp. of Slay.
slewed: Somewhat drunk. [Slang]
slickness: The state or quality of being slick; smoothness; sleekness.
slidegroat: The game of shovelboard. [Obs.]
slimsy: Flimsy; frail. [Colloq. U.S.]
slink: To cast prematurely; -- said of female beasts; as, a cow thatslinks her calf.
slippage: The act of slipping; also, the amount of slipping.
slipperness: Slipperiness. [Obs.]
slitter: One who, or that which, slits.
sloe: A small, bitter, wild European plum, the fruit of theblackthorn (Prunus spinosa); also, the tree itself.
slopewise: Obliquely. [Obs.] Carew.
sloping: Inclining or inclined from the plane of the horizon, or from ahorizontal or other right line; oblique; declivous; slanting.-- Slop"ing*ly, adv.The sloping land recedes into the clouds. Cowper.
slothful: Addicted to sloth; inactive; sluggish; lazy; indolent; idle.He also that is slothful in his work is brother to him that is agreat waster. Prov. xviii. 9.-- Sloth"ful*ly, adv.-- Sloth"ful*ness, n.
slovenry: Slovenliness. [Obs.] Shak.
slowback: A lubber; an idle fellow; a loiterer. [Old Slang] Dr. Favour.
slowworm: A lecertilian reptile; the blindworm.
sloyd: Lit., skilled mechanical work, such as that required in woodcarving; trade work; hence, a system (usually called the sloydsystem) of manual training in the practical use of the tools andmaterials used in the trades, and of instruction in the making anduse of the plans and specifications connected with trade work. Thesloyd system derives its name from the fact that it was adopted orlargely developed from a similar Swedish system, in which woodcarving was a chief feature. Its purpose is not only to affordpractical skill in some trade, but also to develop the pupilsmentally and physically.
sluggy: Sluggish. [Obs.] Chaucer.
slugs: Half-roasted ore.
sluiceway: An artificial channel into which water is let by a sluice;specifically, a trough constructed over the bed of a stream, so thatlogs, lumber, or rubbish can be floated down to some convenient placeof delivery.
sluthhound: Sleuthhound.
sly: Slyly. [Obs. or Poetic] Spenser.
slype: A narrow passage between two buildings, as between the transeptand chapter house of a monastery. [Eng.]
smacking: A sharp, quick noise; a smack.Like the faint smacking of an after kiss. Dryden.
small: Smallclothes. [Colloq.] Hood. Dickens.
smallclothes: A man's garment for the hips and thighs; breeches. SeeBreeches.
smatch: Taste; tincture; smack. [Obs.]Thy life hath had some smatch of honor in it. Shak.
smerlin: A small loach.
smiler: One who smiles. Tennyson.
sminthurid: Any one of numerous small species of springtails, of the familySminthurid, -- usually found on flowers. See Illust. underCollembola.
smokily: In a smoky manner.
smutch: A stain; a dirty spot. B. Jonson.
snarer: One who lays snares, or entraps.
sniffing: A rapid inspiratory act, in which the mouth is kept shut andthe air drawn in through the nose.
sniggle: To fish for eels by thrusting the baited hook into their holesor hiding places. Walton.
snippack: The common snipe. [Prov. Eng.]
snippet: A small part or piece.To be cut into snippets and shreds. F. Harrison.
snobling: A little snob. [Jocose] Thackeray.
snooze: A short sleep; a nap. [Colloq.]
snot: To blow, wipe, or clear, as the nose.
snowless: Destitute of snow.
snowshoeing: Traveling on snowshoes.
so: Provided that; on condition that; in case that; if.Though all the winds of doctrine were let loose play upon the earth,so truth be in the field, we do injuriously, by licensing andprohibiting, to misdoubt her strength. Milton.
soal: See Sole, the fish. [Obs.]
soapstone: See Steatite, and Talc.
soapwort: A common plant (Saponaria officinalis) of the Pink family; --so called because its bruised leaves, when agitated in water, producea lather like that from soap. Called also Bouncing Bet.
sob: To soak. [Obs.] Mortimer.
soboliferous: Producing soboles. See Illust. of Houseleek.
sociableness: The quality of being sociable.
socratically: In the Socratic method.
softener: One who, or that which, softens. [Written also, less properly,softner.]
soily: Dirty; soiled. [Obs.] Fuller.
sojourning: The act or state of one who sojourns.
sokemanry: See Socmanry.
solacement: The act of solacing, or the state of being solaced; also, thatwhich solaces. [R.]
solecist: One who commits a solecism. Blackwall.
solecize: To commit a solecism. [R.] Dr. H. More.
solicitous: Disposed to solicit; eager to obtain something desirable, or toavoid anything evil; concerned; anxious; careful. "Solicitous of myreputation." Dryden. "He was solicitous for his advice." Calerendon.Enjoy the present, whatsoever it be, and be not solicitous about thefuture. Jer. Taylor.The colonel had been intent upon other things, and not enoughsolicitous to finish the fortifications. Clarendon.-- So*lic"it*ous*ly, adv.-- So*lic"it*ous*ness, n.
solicitress: A woman who solicits.
solifidian: One who maintains that faith alone, without works, issufficient for justification; -- opposed to nullifidian. Hammond.
solisequious: Following the course of the sun; as, solisequious plants. [R.]Sir T. Browne.
solitarian: A hermit; a solitary. [Obs.] Sir R. Twisden.
solitariety: The state of being solitary; solitariness. [Obs.] Cudworth.
sollar: A platform in a shaft, especially one of those between theseries of ladders in a shaft.
solo: A tune, air, strain, or a whole piece, played by a singleperson on an instrument, or sung by a single voice.
solomon: One of the kings of Israel, noted for his superior wisdom andmagnificent reign; hence, a very wise man.-- Sol`o*mon"ic, a. Solomon's seal (Bot.), a perennial liliaceousplant of the genus Polygonatum, having simple erect or curving stemsrising from thick and knotted rootstocks, and with white or greenishnodding flowers. The commonest European species is Polygonatummultiflorum. P. biflorum and P. giganteum are common in the EasternUnited States. See Illust. of Rootstock. False Solomon's seal (Bot.),any plant of the liliaceous genus Smilacina having small whitishflowers in terminal racemes or panicles.
solute: Not adhering; loose; -- opposed to adnate; as, a solutestipule.
solvible: See Solvable.
sombrous: Gloomy; somber. "Tall and sombrous pines." Longfellow.-- Som"brous*ly, adv.-- Som"brous*ness, n.
somedeal: In some degree; somewhat. [Written also sumdel, sumdeale, andsumdele.] [Obs.] "She was somedeal deaf." Chaucer.Thou lackest somedeal their delight. Spenser.
sommerset: See Somersault.
somnambulic: Somnambulistic.
somnambulist: A person who is subject to somnambulism; one who walks in hissleep; a sleepwalker; a noctambulist.
somne: To summon. [Obs.] Chaucer.
somnour: A summoner; an apparitor; a sompnour. [Obs.] Piers Plowman.
sondeli: The musk shrew. See under Musk.
sonneteer: A composer of sonnets, or small poems; a small poet; -- usuallyin contempt.What woful stuff this madrigal would be In some starved hackneysonneteer or me! Pope.
sonnetize: To compose sonnets.
sooshong: See Souchong.
soosoo: A kind of dolphin (Platanista Gangeticus) native of the riverGanges; the Gangetic dolphin. It has a long, slender, somewhatspatulate beak. [Written also susu.]
sootiness: The quality or state of being sooty; fuliginousness. Johnson.
sootish: Sooty. Sir T. Browne.
sopite: To lay asleep; to put to sleep; to quiet. [Obs.]The king's declaration for the sopiting of all Arminian heresies.Fuller.
soporate: To lay or put to sleep; to stupefy. [Obs.] Cudworth.
sora: A North American rail (Porzana Carolina) common in the EasternUnited States. Its back is golden brown, varied with black and white,the front of the head and throat black, the breast and sides of thehead and neck slate-colored. Called also American rail, Carolinarail, Carolina crake, common rail, sora rail, soree, meadow chicken,and orto. King sora, the Florida gallinule.
sorbefacient: Producing absorption.-- n.
sorbile: Fit to be drunk or sipped. [Obs.]
sord: See Sward. [R.] Milton.
sortment: Assortiment. [Obs.]
sory: Green vitriol, or some earth imregnated with it.
sote: Sweet. [Obs.] Chaucer. Fairfax.
soul: Sole. [Obs.] Chaucer.
soullessly: In a soulless manner. Tylor.
soun: Sound. [Obs.] aucer.
sourcrout: See Sauerkraut.
southcottian: A follower of Joanna Southcott (1750-1814), an Englishwomanwho, professing to have received a miraculous calling, preached andprophesied, and committed many impious absurdities.
southwesterly: To ward or from the southwest; as, a southwesterly course; asouthwesterly wind.
sovereign: Any butterfly of the tribe Nymphalidi, or genus Basilarchia, asthe ursula and the viceroy.
sovran: A variant of Sovereign. [Poetic]On thy bald, awful head, O sovran Blanc. Coleridge.
sowar: In India, a mounted soldier.
sowbane: The red goosefoot (Chenopodium rubrum), -- said to be fatal toswine.
spacially: See Spatially. Sir W,Hamilton.
spado: An impotent person.
spaid: See 1st Spade.
spake: imp. of Speak.
spaky: Specky. [Obs.] hapman.
spaniard: A native or inhabitant of Spain.
spaniel: One of a breed of small dogs having long and thick hair andlarge drooping ears. The legs are usually strongly feathered, and thetail bushy. See Illust. under Clumber, and Cocker.
spank: To strike, as the breech, with the open hand; to slap.
spanpiece: The collar of a roof; sparpiece.
sparable: A kind of small nail used by shoemakers.
sparble: To scatter; to disperse; to rout. [Obs.]The king's host was sparbled and chased. Fabyan.
spargefaction: The act of sprinkling. [Obs.] Swift.
sparing: Spare; saving; frugal; merciful. Bacon.-- Spar"ing*ly, adv.-- Spar"ing*ness, n.
sparry: Resembling spar, or consisting of spar; abounding with spar;having a confused crystalline structure; spathose. Sparry iron(Min.), siderite. See Siderite (a).-- Sparry limestone (Min.), a coarsely crystalline marble.
spate: A river flood; an overflow or inundation. Burns.Gareth in a showerful spring Stared at the spate. Tennyson.
spathed: Having a spathe or calyx like a sheath.
spatially: As regards space.
spatiate: To rove; to ramble. [Obs.] Bacon.
spatterdashed: Wearing spatterdashes. [Colloq.] Thackeray.
spavin: A disease of horses characterized by a bony swelling developedon the hock as the result of inflammation of the bones; also, theswelling itself. The resulting lameness is due to the inflammation,and not the bony tumor as popularly supposed. Harbaugh. Bog spavin, asoft swelling produced by distention of the capsular ligament of thehock; -- called also blood spavin.-- Bone spavin, spavin attended with exostosis; ordinary spavin.
spawl: A splinter or fragment, as of wood or stone. See Spall.
spearhead: The pointed head, or end, of a spear.
speary: Having the form of a spear.
speckledness: The quality of being speckled.
sped: imp. & p. p. of Speed.
speechifying: The act of making a speech or speeches. [Used derisively orhumorously.]The dinner and speechifying . . . at the opening of the annual seasonfor the buckhounds. M. Arnold.
spekehouse: The parlor or reception room of a convent. [Obs.]
spellbind: To bind or hold by, or as if by, a spell or charm; tofascinate, esp. by eloquence of speech, as in a political campaign. -- Spell"bind`er (#), n.
spelunc: A cavern; a cave. [Obs.] Piers Plowman.
spermalist: See Spermist.
spermatoblast: Same as Spermoblast.
spermatogenetic: Relating to, or connected with, spermatogenesis; as,spermatogenetic function.
spermatophore: Same as Spermospore.
spermatozooid: A spermatozoid.
sperrylite: An arsenide of platinum occuring in grains and minute isometriccrystals of tin-white color. It is found near Sudbury, OntarioCanada, and is the only known compound of platinum occuring innature.
spewiness: The state of being spewy.
sphacelation: The process of becoming or making gangrenous; mortification.
sphene: A mineral found usually in thin, wedge-shaped crystals of ayellow or green to black color. It is a silicate of titanium andcalcium; titanite.
sphericle: A small sphere.
spheroidal: Having the form of a spheroid.-- Sphe*roid"al*ly, adv. Spheroidal state (Physics.), the state of aliquid, as water, when, on being thrown on a surface of highly heatedmetal, it rolls about in spheroidal drops or masses, at a temperatureseveral degrees below ebullition, and without actual contact with theheated surface, -- a phenomenon due to the repulsive force of heat,the intervention of a cushion of nonconducting vapor, and the coolingeffect of evaporation.
sphinx: Any one of numerous species of large moths of the familySphingidæ; -- called also hawk moth.
sphygmograph: An instrument which, when applied over an artery, indicatesgraphically the movements or character of the pulse. See Sphygmogram.
spicebush: Spicewood.
spick: A spike or nail. [Prov. Eng.] Spick and span, quite new; thatis, as new as a spike or nail just made and a chip just split; brand-new; as, a spick and span novelty. See Span-new. Howell.
spiculiform: Having the shape of a spicule.
spidered: Infested by spiders; cobwebbed. Wolcott.
spinal: Of, pertaining to, or in the region of, the backbone, orvertebral column; rachidian; vertebral.
spinate: Bearing a spine; spiniform.
spindleworm: The larva of a noctuid mmoth (Achatodes zeæ) which feeds insidethe stalks of corn (maize), sometimes causing much damage. It issmooth, with a black head and tail and a row of black dots acrosseach segment.
spinebill: Any species of Australian birds of the genus Acanthorhynchus.They are related to the honey eaters.
spinigerous: Bearing a spine or spines; thorn-bearing.
spinneret: One of the special jointed organs situated on the under side,and near the end, of the abdomen of spiders, by means of which theyspin their webs. Most spiders have three pairs of spinnerets, butsome have only two pairs. The ordinary silk line of the spider iscomposed of numerous smaller lines jointed after issuing from thespinnerets.
spinosity: The quality or state of being spiny or thorny; spininess.
spinthariscope: A small instrument containing a minute particle of a radiumcompound mounted in front of a fluorescent screen and viewed withmagnifying lenses. The tiny flashes produced by the continualbombardment of the screen by the a rays are thus rendered visible. --Spin*thar`i*scop"ic (#), a.
spiodea: An extensive division of marine Annelida, including those thatare without oral tentacles or cirri, and have the gills, whenpresent, mostly arranged along the sides of the body. They generallylive in burrows or tubes.
spiraeic: Of, pertaining to, or derived from, the meadowsweet (Spiræa);formerly, designating an acid which is now called salicylic acid.
spiration: The act of breathing. [Obs.] Barrow.
spired: Having a spire; being in the form of a spire; as, a spiredsteeple. Mason.
spiritualism: The doctrine, in opposition to the materialists, that all whichexists is spirit, or soul -- that what is called the external worldis either a succession of notions impressed on the mind by the Deity,as maintained by Berkeley, or else the mere educt of the mind itself,as taught by Fichte.
spiritualist: Spiritualistic. Taylor.
spirometer: An instrument for measuring the vital capacity of the lungs, orthe volume of air which can be expelled from the chest after thedeepest possible inspiration. Cf. Pneumatometer.
spiroscope: A wet meter used to determine the breathing capacity of thelungs.
spirulate: Having the color spots, or structural parts, arranged spirally.
spittle: See Spital. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
spittoon: A spitbox; a cuspidor.
splashy: Full of dirty water; wet and muddy, so as be easily splashedabout; slushy.
splendidness: The quality of being splendid.
splendiferous: Splendor-bearing; splendid. Bale (1538). "A splendiferouswoman." Haliburton. [Now used humorously.]
splendor: Splendid. Drayton.
splinterproof: Proof against the splinters, or fragments, of bursting shells.
splotch: A spot; a stain; a daub. R. Browning.
spodomancy: Divination by means of ashes.
spodomantic: Relating to spodomancy, or divination by means of ashes. C.Kingsley.
spoilful: Wasteful; rapacious. [Poetic]
spoilsmonger: One who promises or distributes public offices and theiremoluments as the price of services to a party or its leaders.
spokesman: One who speaks for another.He shall be thy spokesman unto the people. Ex. iv. 16.
spongida: Spongiæ.
spoon: See Spoom. [Obs.]We might have spooned before the wind as well as they. Pepys.
spoondrift: Spray blown from the tops waves during a gale at sea; also,snow driven in the wind at sea; -- written also spindrift.
spooney: Weak-minded; demonstratively fond; as, spooney lovers. [Speltalso spoony.] [Colloq.]
sporadically: In a sporadic manner.
sporozoid: Same as Zoöspore.
sport: A plant or an animal, or part of a plant or animal, which hassome peculiarity not usually seen in the species; an abnormal varietyor growth. See Sporting plant, under Sporting.
spotted: Marked with spots; as, a spotted garment or character. "Thespotted panther." Spenser. Spotted fever (Med.), a name applied tovarious eruptive fevers, esp. to typhus fever and cerebro-spinalmeningitis.-- Spotted tree (Bot.), an Australian tree (Flindersia maculosa); --so called because its bark falls off in spots.
spouse: To wed; to espouse. [Obs.]This markis hath her spoused with a ring. Chaucer.Though spoused, yet wanting wedlock's solemnize. Spenser.She was found again, and spoused to Marinell. Spenser.
sprayer: One that sprays; any instrument for vaporizing and sprayingliquids.
spread: An unlimited expanse of discontinuous points.
sprig: A small eyebolt ragged or barbed at the point.
spright: To haunt, as a spright. [Obs.] Shak.
sprightless: Destitute of life; dull; sluggish.
springtide: The time of spring; springtime. Thomson.
springtime: The season of spring; springtide.
sprint: To run very rapidly; to run at full speed.A runner [in a quarter-mile race] should be able to sprint the wholeway. Encyc. Brit.
spunge: A sponge. [Obs.]
spurge: To emit foam; to froth; -- said of the emission of yeast frombeer in course of fermentation. [Obs.] W. Cartright.
spurging: A purging. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
spurway: A bridle path. [R.]
squabash: To crush; to quash; to squash. [Colloq. or Slang, Scot.] Sir W.Scott.
squabble: To disarrange, so that the letters or lines stand awry or aremixed and need careful readjustment; -- said of type that has beenset up.
squali: The suborder of elasmobranch fishes which comprises the sharks.
squalid: Dirty through neglect; foul; filthy; extremely dirty.Uncomed his locks, and squalid his attrie. Dryden.Those squalid dens, which are the reproach of large capitals.Macaulay.
squamula: One of the little hypogynous scales found in the flowers ofgrasses; a lodicule.
squatty: Squat; dumpy. J. Burroughs.
squinzey: See Quinsy. [Obs.]
squire: A square; a measure; a rule. [Obs.] "With golden squire."Spenser.
squitee: The squeteague; -- called also squit.
stain: To give or receive a stain; to grow dim.
stainlessly: In a stainless manner.
stalactiform: Like a stalactite; resembling a stalactite.
stallion: A male horse not castrated; a male horse kept for breeding.
stallon: A slip from a plant; a scion; a cutting. [R.] Holished.
stalwartly: In a stalwart manner.
stamina: See Stamen.
stammer: To make involuntary stops in uttering syllables or words; tohesitate or falter in speaking; to speak with stops and diffivulty;to stutter.I would thou couldst stammer, that thou mightest pour this concleadman out of thy mouth, as wine comes out of a narrow-mouthed bottle,either too much at once, or none at all. Shak.
stammerer: One who stammers.
stanchness: The quality or state of being stanch.
staniel: See Stannel.
stank: Weak; worn out. [Obs.] Spenser.
stanzaic: Pertaining to, or consisting of, stanzas; as, a couplet instanzaic form.
staphylotomy: The operation of removing a staphyloma by cutting.
starost: A nobleman who possessed a starosty. [Poland]
starshoot: See Nostoc.
stasimon: In the Greek tragedy, a song of the chorus, continued withoutthe interruption of dialogue or anapæstics. Liddell & Scott.
statable: That can be stated; as, a statablegrievance; the question atissue is statable.
state: A statement; also, a document containing a statement. [R.] SirW. Scott.
statistician: One versed in statistics; one who collects and classifies factsfor statistics.
statua: A statue. [Obs.]They spake not a word; But, like dumb statuas or breathing stones,Gazed each on other. Shak.
statutably: Conformably to statute.
steadfastness: The quality or state of being steadfast; firmness; fixedness;constancy. "The steadfastness of your faith." Col. ii. 5.To prove her wifehood and her steadfastness. Chaucer.
steamer: The steamer duck. Steamer duck (Zoöl.), a sea duck (Tachyerescinereus), native of Patagonia and Terra del Fuego, which swims anddives with great agility, but which, when full grown, is incapable offlight, owing to its very small wings. Called also loggerhead, racehorse, and side wheel duck.
stearin: One of the constituents of animal fats and also of somevegetable fats, as the butter of cacao. It is especiallycharacterized by its solidity, so that when present in considerablequantity it materially increases the hardness, or raises the meltingpoint, of the fat, as in mutton tallow. Chemically, it is a compoundof glyceryl with three molecules of stearic acid, and hence istechnically called tristearin, or glyceryl tristearate.
stee: A ladder. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] [Written also stey.]
steelhead: A North Pacific salmon (Salmo Gairdneri) found from NorthernCalifornia to Siberia; -- called also hardhead, and preesil.
steem: See Esteem. [Obs.] Spenser.
stegosaurus: A genus of large Jurassic dinosaurs remarkable for a powerfuldermal armature of plates and spines.
stein: See Steen.
steinkirk: Same as Steenkirk.
stele: Same as Stela.One of these steles, containing the Greek version of the ordinance,has recently been discovered. I. Taylor (The Alphabet).
stellify: To turn into a star; to cause to appear like a star; to placeamong the stars, or in heaven. [Obs. or R.] B. Jonson.
stellulate: Minutely stellate.
stemless: Having no stem; (Bot.) acaulescent.
stenosis: A narrowing of the opening or hollow of any passage, tube, ororifice; as, stenosis of the pylorus. It differs from stricture inbeing applied especially to diffused rather than localizedcontractions, and in always indicating an origin organic and notspasmodic.
stenting: An opening in a wall in a coal mine. [Written also stenton.][Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.
stentor: Any species of ciliated Infusoria belonging to the genusStentor and allied genera, common in fresh water. The stentors have abell-shaped, or cornucopia-like, body with a circle of cilia aroundthe spiral terminal disk. See Illust. under Heterotricha.
step: To fix the foot of (a mast) in its step; to erect. To step off,to measure by steps, or paces; hence, to divide, as a space, or toform a series of marks, by successive measurements, as with dividers.
stepdame: A stepmother. Spenser.
stephanite: A sulphide of antimony and silver of an iron-black color andmetallic luster; called also black silver, and brittle silver ore.
stercolin: Same as Serolin (b).
stereostatic: Geostatic.
sterilizer: One that sterilizes anything; specif., an apparatus forsterilizing an organic fluid or mixture.
stern: The black tern.
sterner: A director. [Obs. & R.] Dr. R. Clerke.
sterquilinous: Pertaining to a dunghill; hence, mean; dirty; paltry. [Obs.]Howell.
sterrink: The crab-eating seal (Lobodon carcinophaga) of the AntarcticOcean.
stertorous: Characterized by a deep snoring, which accompaines inspirationin some diseases, especially apoplexy; hence, hoarsely breathing;snoring.Burning, stertorous breath that hurt her cheek. Mrs. Browning.The day has ebbed away, and it is night in his room, before hisstertorous breathing lulls. Dickens.
stewish: Suiting a stew, or brothel. Bp. Hall.
stichidium: A special podlike or fusiform branch containing tetraspores. Itis found in certain red algæ.
stickful: As much set type as fills a composing stick.
stickle: A shallow rapid in a river; also, the current below awaterfall. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.]Patient anglers, standing all the day Near to some shallow stickle ordeep bay. W. Browne.
stiffly: In a stiff manner.
stigmatic: Of or pertaining to a stigma or stigmata. Stigmatic geometry,or Stigmatics, that science in which the correspondence of index andstigma (see Stigma, 7) is made use of to establish geometricalproportions.
stiletto: To stab or kill with a stiletto. Bacon.
stilling: A stillion. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.]
stiltify: To raise upon stilts, or as upon stilts; to stilt.
stimulant: Produced increased vital action in the organism, or in any ofits parts.
stint: To stop; to cease. [Archaic]They can not stint till no thing be left. Chaucer.And stint thou too, I pray thee. Shak.The damsel stinted in her song. Sir W. Scott.
stipple: A mode of execution which produces the effect by dots or smallpoints instead of lines.
stipule: An appendage at the base of petioles or leaves, usuallysomewhat resembling a small leaf in texture and appearance.
stipuled: Furnished with stipules, or leafy appendages.
stitchery: Needlework; -- in comtempt. Shak.
stitchwort: See Stichwort.
stochastic: Conjectural; able to conjecture. [Obs.] Whitefoot.
stokehold: The space, or any of the spaces, in front of the boilers of aship, from which the furnaces are fed; the stokehole of a ship; also,a room containing a ship's boilers; as, forced draft with  closedstokehold; -- called also, in American ships, fireroom.
stolid: Hopelessly insensible or stupid; not easily aroused or excited;dull; impassive; foolish.
stomapod: One of the Stomapoda.
stomatic: Of or pertaining to a stoma; of the nature of a stoma.
stoneware: A species of coarse potter's ware, glazed and baked.
stood: imp. & p. p. of Stand.
stook: A small collection of sheaves set up in the field; a shock; inEngland, twelve sheaves.
stool: A plant from which layers are propagated by bending itsbranches into the soil. P. Henderson.
stoor: To rise in clouds, as dust. [Prov. Eng.]
storge: Parental affection; the instinctive affection which animalshave for their young.
stovehouse: A hothouse.
straddle: To place one leg on one side and the other on the other sideof; to stand or sit astride of; as, to straddle a fence or a horse.
stragulum: The mantle, or pallium, of a bird.
straightener: One who, or that which, straightens.
straining: from Strain. Straining piece (Arch.), a short piece of timberin a truss, used to maintain the ends of struts or rafters, and keepthem from slipping. See Illust. of Queen-post.
strangler: One who, or that which, strangles. "The very strangler of theiramity." Shak.
strangulation: Inordinate compression or constriction of a tube or part, as ofthe throat; especially, such as causes a suspension of breathing, ofthe passage of contents, or of the circulation, as in cases ofhernia.
strapping: Tall; strong; lusty; large; as, a strapping fellow. [Colloq.]There are five and thirty strapping officers gone. Farquhar.
strata: pl. of Stratum.
strategist: One skilled in strategy, or the science of directing greatmilitary movements.
straticulate: Characterized by the presence of thin parallel strata, orlayers, as in an agate.
stratification: The deposition of material in successive layers in the growthof a cell wall, thus giving rise to a stratified appearance.
strawberry: A fragrant edible berry, of a delicious taste and commonly of ared color, the fruit of a plant of the genus Fragaria, of which thereare many varieties. Also, the plant bearing the fruit. The commonAmerican strawberry is Fragaria virginiana; the European, F. vesca.There are also other less common species. Strawberry bass. (Zoöl.)See Calico bass, under Calico.-- Strawberry blite. (Bot.) See under Blite.-- Strawberry borer (Zoöl.), any one of several species of insectswhose larvæ burrow in the crown or roots of the strawberry vine.Especially
street: Originally, a paved way or road; a public highway; nowcommonly, a thoroughfare in a city or village, bordered by dwellingsor business houses.He removed [the body of] Amasa from the street unto the field.Coverdale.At home or through the high street passing. Milton.
streighten: See Straiten. [Obs.]
strene: Race; offspring; stock; breed; strain. [Obs.] Chaucer.
striature: A stria.
stricture: A localized morbid contraction of any passage of the body. Cf.Organic stricture, and Spasmodic stricture, under Organic, andSpasmodic. Arbuthnot.
strigous: Strigose. [R.]
stripling: A youth in the state of adolescence, or just passing fromboyhood to manhood; a lad.Inquire thou whose son the stripling is. 1 Sam. xvii. 56.
striving: from Strive.-- Striv"ing*ly, adv.
strobiliform: Shaped like a strobile.
stroking: The act of laying small gathers in cloth in regular order.
stronghold: A fastness; a fort or fortress; fortfield place; a place ofsecurity.
stroot: To swell out; to strut. [Obs.] Chapman.
structure: Manner of organization; the arrangement of the differenttissues or parts of animal and vegetable organisms; as, organicstructure, or the structure of animals and plants; cellularstructure.
strychnic: Of or pertaining to strychnine; produced by strychnine; as,strychnic compounds; strychnic poisoning; specifically (Chem.),
stucco: To overlay or decorate with stucco, or fine plaster.
stuckle: A number of sheaves set together in the field; a stook.
stumbler: One who stumbles.
stupefiedness: Quality of being stupid.
sturdiness: Quality of being sturdy.
sturdy: A disease in sheep and cattle, marked by great nervousness, orby dullness and stupor.
stygial: Stygian. [R.] Skelton.
stylommata: Same as Stylommatophora.
stylommatophorous: Of or pertaining to Stylommatophora.
stylus: An instrument for writing. See Style, n., 1. That needle-shapedpart at the tip of the playing arm of phonograph which sits in thegroove of a phonograph record while it is turning, to detect theundulations in the phonograph groove and convert them into vibrationswhich are transmitted to a system (since 1920 electronic) whichconverts the signal into sound; also called needle. The stylus isfrequently composed of metal or diamond. 3. The needle-like deviceused to cut the grooves which record the sound on the original discduring recording of a phonograph record. 4. (Computers)
stythe: Choke damp.
suable: Capable of being sued; subject by law to be called to answer incourt. Story.
suade: To persuade. [Obs.]
subadvocate: An under or subordinate advocate.
subaerial: Beneath the sky; in the open air; specifically (Geol.), takingplace on the earth's surface, as opposed to subaqueous.
subarration: The ancient custom of betrothing by the bestowal, on the partof the man, of marriage gifts or tokens, as money, rings, or otherpresents, upon the woman.
subaud: To understand or supply in an ellipsis. [R.]
subbrachian: One of the Subbrachiales.
subcarbureted: United with, or containing, carbon in less than the normalproportion. [Written also subcarburetted.] [Obsoles.]
subclass: One of the natural groups, more important than an order, intowhich some classes are divided; as, the angiospermous subclass ofexogens.
subclavian: Situated under the clavicle, or collar bone; as, the subclavianarteries.
subdelegate: A subordinate delegate, or one with inferior powers.
subdeposit: That which is deposited beneath something else.
subeditor: An assistant editor, as of a periodical or journal.
subereous: Of or pertaining to cork; of the nature of cork; suberose.
subindividual: A division of that which is individual.An individual can not branch itself into subindividuals. Milton.
subjective: Modified by, or making prominent, the individuality of a writeror an artist; as, a subjective drama or painting; a subjectivewriter.
subjectivist: One who holds to subjectivism; an egoist.
subjunctive: Subjoined or added to something before said or written.Subjunctive mood (Gram.), that form of a verb which express theaction or state not as a fact, but only as a conception of the mindstill contingent and dependent. It is commonly subjoined, or added assubordinate, to some other verb, and in English is often connectedwith it by if, that, though, lest, unless, except, until, etc., as inthe following sentence
subluxation: An incomplete or partial dislocation.
submedian: Next to the median (on either side); as, the submedian teeth ofmollusks.
submissly: In a submissive manner; with a submission. [Archaic] Jer.Taylor.
subopercular: Situated below the operculum; pertaining to the suboperculum.-- n.
subordinary: One of several heraldic bearings somewhat less common than anordinary. See Ordinary.
subornation: The act of suborning; the crime of procuring a person to takesuch a false oath as constitutes perjury. Blackstone.
subperiosteal: Situated under the periosteum. Subperiosteal operation (Surg.),a removal of bone effected without taking away the periosteum.
subquinquefid: Almost quinquefid; nearly quinquefid.
subrigid: Somewhat rigid or stiff.
subsaline: Moderately saline or salt.
subsecute: To follow closely, or so as to overtake; to pursue. [Obs.]To follow and detain him, if by any possibility he could besubsecuted and overtaken. E. Hall.
subsphenoidal: Situated under, or on the ventral side of, the body of thesphenoid bone.
substantivize: To convert into a substantive; as, to substantivize anadjective. Fitzed. Hall.
subsulphate: A sulphate with an excess of the base.
subtransparent: Not perfectly transparent.
subtreasurer: The public officer who has charge of a subtreasury. [U. S.]
subtriangular: Nearly, but not perfectly, triangular. Darwin.
subtrihedral: Approaching the form of a three-sided pyramid; as, thesubtrihedral crown of a tooth. Owen.
subturriculate: Somewhat turriculate.
suburbed: Having a suburb or suburbs on its outer part.
subvariety: A subordinate variety, or a division of a variety.
succedane: A succedaneum. [Obs.]
succiduous: Ready to fall; falling. [R.]
succinuric: Pertaining to, or designating, an acid amide, analogous tosuccinamic acid, which is obtained as a white crystalline substanceby heating urea with succinic anhydride. It is known also in itssalts.
suckanhock: A kind of seawan. See Note under Seawan.
sucker: A shoot from the roots or lower part of the stem of a plant; --so called, perhaps, from diverting nourishment from the body of theplant.
suckfish: A sucker fish.
suckler: An animal that suckles its young; a mammal.
sufficiently: To a sufficient degree; to a degree that answers the purpose,or gives content; enough; as, we are sufficiently supplied with food;a man sufficiently qualified for the discharge of his officialduties.
sufficing: Affording enough; satisfying.-- Suf*fi"cing*ly, adv.-- Suf*fi"cing*ness, n.
suffix: A subscript mark, number, or letter. See Subscript, a.
suffocation: The act of suffocating, or the state of being suffocated; deathcaused by smothering or choking.
suffragan: Assisting; assistant; as, a suffragan bishop.
suggil: To defame. [Obs.] Abp. Parker.
suitress: A female supplicant. Rowe.
sulcus: A furrow; a groove; a fissure.
sulphocyanic: Of, pertaining to, derived from, or designating, a sulphacid,HSCN, analogous to cyanic acid, and obtained as a colorlessdeliquescent crystalline substance, having a bitter saline taste, andnot poisonous.
sulphophosphorous: Of, pertaining to, or designating, a hypothetical acid ofphosphorus, analogous to phosphorous acid, and known in its salts.
sulphotungstic: Of, pertaining to, or designating, hypothetical sulphacid oftungsten (called also sulphowolframic acid), analogous to sulphuricacid, and known in its salts.
sultanry: The dominions of a sultan. Bacon.
summit: The most elevated part of a bivalve shell, or the part in whichthe hinge is situated. Summit level, the highest level of a canal, arailroad, or the like, in surmounting an ascent.
summoner: One who summons; one who cites by authority; specifically, apetty officer formerly employed to summon persons to appear in court;an apparitor.
sumptuosity: Expensiveness; costliness; sumptuousness. [R.] Sir W. Raleigh.
sun: See Sunn.
sunburning: Sunburn; tan. Boyle.
sundart: Sunbeam. [R.] Mrs. Hemans.
sundowner: A tramp or vagabond in the Australian bush; -- so called fromhis coming to sheep stations at sunset of ask for supper and a bed,when it is too late to work; -- called also traveler and swagman (butnot all swagmen are sundowners).
sundrops: Any one of the several species of Kneiffia, esp. K. fruticosa(syn. Onothera fruticosa), of the Evening-primrose family, havingflowers that open by daylight.
sunniah: One of the sect of Sunnites.
sunny: See Sunfish (b).
sunstone: Aventurine feldspar. See under Aventurine.
sunwise: In the direction of the sun's apparent motion, or from the eastsouthward and westward, and so around the circle; also, in the samedirection as the movement of the hands of a watch lying face upward.
sup: To take into the mouth with the lips, as a liquid; to take ordrink by a little at a time; to sip.There I'll sup Balm and nectar in my cup. Crashaw.
superabound: To be very abundant or exuberant; to be more than sufficient;as, the country superabounds with corn.
superhuman: Above or beyond what is human; sometimes, divine; as,superhuman strength; superhuman wisdom.
superimpregnation: The act of impregnating, or the state of being impregnated, inaddition to a prior impregnation; superfetation.
superinduction: The act of superinducing, or the state of being superinduced.South.
superinstitution: One institution upon another, as when A is instituted andadmitted to a benefice upon a title, and B instituted and admittedupon the presentation of another. Bailey.
superinvestiture: An outer vestment or garment. [R.] Bp. Horne.
superioress: A woman who acts as chief in a convent, abbey, or nunnery; alady superior.
supernaturalness: The quality or state of being supernatural.
supersaturate: To add to beyond saturation; as, to supersaturate a solution.
superstratum: A stratum, or layer, above another.
supersubstantial: More than substantial; spiritual. "The heavenlysupersubstantial bread." Jer. Taylor.
supersulphurize: To impregnate or combine with an excess of sulphur.
superterrene: Being above ground, or above the earth. [R.]
supertonic: The note next above the keynote; the second of the scale.Busby.
supplace: To replace. [R.] J. Bascom.
supplicat: A petition; esp., a written one, with a certificate that theconditions have been complied with.
supplyant: Supplying or aiding; auxiliary; suppletory. [Obs.] Shak.
supportable: Capable of being supported, maintained, or endured; endurable.-- Sup*port"a*ble*ness, n.-- Sup*port"a*bly, adv.
supporter: A knee placed under the cathead.
supposal: The act of supposing; also, that which is supposed;supposition; opinion. Shak.Interest, with a Jew, never proceeds but upon supposal, at least, ofa firm and sufficient bottom. South.
supprise: To surprise. [Obs.] Chaucer.
suprabranchial: Situated above the branchiæ; -- applied especially to the upperdivision of the gill cavity of bivalve mollusks.
supracranial: Situated above, or in the roof of, the cranium.
supralapsarian: One of that class of Calvinists who believed that God's decreeof election determined that man should fall, in order that theopportunity might be furnished of securing the redemption of a partof the race, the decree of salvation being conceived of as formedbefore or beyond, and not after or following, the lapse, or fall. Cf.Infralapsarian.
supreme: Situated at the highest part or point. The Supreme, theAlmighty; God.
suraddition: Something added or appended, as to a name. [Obs.] Shak.
surcease: Cessation; stop; end. "Not desire, but its surcease."Longfellow.It is time that there were an end and surcease made of this immodestand deformed manner of writing. Bacon.
surculation: Act of purning. [Obs.]
surface: A magnitude that has length and breadth without thickness;superficies; as, a plane surface; a spherical surface.
surfoot: Tired or sore of foot from travel; lamed. [Obs.] Nares.
surgeful: Abounding in surges; surgy. "Tossing the surgeful tides."Drayton.
surgeless: Free from surges; smooth; calm.
surgeonry: Surgery. [Obs.]
surpliced: Wearing a surplice.
surprising: Exciting surprise; extraordinary; of a nature to excite wonderand astonishment; as, surprising bravery; a surprising escape fromdanger.-- Sur*pris"ing*ly, adv.-- Sur*pris"ing*ness, n.
surucucu: See Bush master, under Bush.
surveyorship: The office of a surveyor.
suscitate: To rouse; to excite; to call into life and action. [Obs.]
suspecter: One who suspects.
suspense: A temporary cessation of one's right; suspension, as when therent or other profits of land cease by unity of possession of landand rent. Suspense account (Bookkeeping), an account in whichreceipts or disbursements are temporarily entered until their properposition in the books is determined.
suspired: Ardently desired or longed for; earnestly coveted. [Obs.] SirH. Wotton.
sustaltic: Mournful; -- said of a species of music among the ancientGreeks. Busby.
susurration: A whispering; a soft murmur. "Soft susurrations of the trees."Howell.
swa: So. [Obs.] Chaucer.
swabber: To swab. [R.]
swaddler: A term of contempt for an Irish Methodist. Shipley.
swagger: To bully. [R.] Swift.
swagman: A bushman carrying a swag and traveling on foot; -- called alsoswagsman, swagger, and swaggie.
swanimote: See Swainmote.
swanny: Swanlike; as, a swanny glossiness of the neck. Richardson.
swanpan: The Chinese abacus; a schwanpan. S. W. Williams.
swardy: Covered with sward or grass.
swashy: Soft, like fruit that is too ripe; quashy; swash. [Prov. Eng.]
swather: A device attached to a mowing machine for raising the uncutfallen grain and marking the limit of the swath.
swich: Such. [Obs.]Swich things as that I know I will declare. Chaucer.
swiftlet: Any one of numerous species of small East Indian and Asiaticswifts of the genus Collocalia. Some of the species are noted forfurnishing the edible bird's nest. See Illust. under Edible.
swingle: A wooden instrument like a large knife, about two feet long,with one thin edge, used for beating and cleaning flax; a scutcher; -- called also swingling knife, swingling staff, and swingling wand.
swingletree: A whiffletree, or whippletree. See Singletree.
swirl: To whirl, or cause to whirl, as in an eddy. "The river swirledalong." C. Kingsley.
switch: A movable part of a rail; or of opposite rails, fortransferring cars from one track to another.
swom: imp. of Swim. Shak.
swooning: from Swoon, v.-- Swoon"ing*ly, adv.
swordick: The spotted gunnel (Murænoides gunnellus). [Prov. Eng.]
syb: See Sib. [Obs. or Scot.]
sycamine: See Sycamore.
syce: A groom. [India]
sycophancy: The character or characteristic of a sycophant. Hence
sycophant: To play the sycophant.
sycophantish: Like a sycophant; obsequiously flattering.-- Syc"o*phant`ish*ly, adv.Sycophantish satirists that forever humor the prevailing folly. DeQuincey.
sye: Saw. Chaucer.
syllabification: Same as Syllabication. Rush.Syllabification depends not on mere force, but on discontinuity offorce. H. Sweet.
syllabize: To syllabify. Howell.
syllabus: A compendium containing the heads of a discourse, and the like;an abstract.
sylphlike: Like a sylph; airy; graceful.Sometimes a dance . . . Displayed some sylphlike figures in its maze.Byron.
sylviculturist: One who cultivates forest trees, especially as a business.
symbal: See Cimbal. [Obs.]
symbiotic: Pertaining to, or characterized by, or living in, a state ofsymbiosis. -- Sym`bi*ot"ic*al (#), a. -- Sym`bi*ot"ic*al*ly (#), adv.
symmetrian: One eminently studious of symmetry of parts. [R.] Sir P.Sidney.
sympathetical: Sympathetic.
symposiast: One engaged with others at a banquet or merrymaking. SydneySmith.
synallaxine: Having the outer and middle toes partially united; -- said ofcertain birds related to the creepers.
synarthrosis: Immovable articulation by close union, as in sutures. Itsometimes includes symphysial articulations also. See the Note underArticulation, n., 1.
synchondrotomy: Symphyseotomy.
synchoresis: A concession made for the purpose of retorting with greaterforce.
syncretism: Attempted union of principles or parties irreconcilably atvariance with each other.He is plotting a carnal syncretism, and attempting the reconcilementof Christ and Belial. Baxter.Syncretism is opposed to eclecticism in philosophy. Krauth-Fleming.
syncytium: Tissue in which the cell or partition walls are wholly wantingand the cell bodies fused together, so that the tissue consists of acontinuous mass of protoplasm in which nuclei are imbedded, as inordinary striped muscle.
syndrome: Concurrence. [R.] Glanvill.
synecdochical: Expressed by synecdoche; implying a synecdoche.Isis is used for Themesis by a synecdochical kind of speech, or by apoetical liberty, in using one for another. Drayton.
syngnathi: A suborder of lophobranch fishes which have an elongated snoutand lack the ventral and first dorsal fins. The pipefishes and seahorses are examples.-- Syng"na*thous, a.
synod: An ecclesiastic council or meeting to consult on churchmatters.
synonymal: Synonymous. [Obs.]
synosteosis: Union by means of bone; the complete closing up andobliteration of sutures.
synovia: A transparent, viscid, lubricating fluid which contains mucinand secreted by synovial membranes; synovial fluid.
syntaxis: Syntax. [R.] B. Jonson.
synteresis: Prophylaxis. [Obs.]
syphilitic: Of or pertaining to syphilis; of the nature of syphilis;affected with syphilis.-- n.
syriacism: A Syrian idiom; a Syrianism.
syrian: Of or pertaining to Syria; Syriac.-- n.
systole: The shortening of the long syllable.
ta: To take. [Obs. or Scot.]  Cursor Mundi.
tabernacle: To dwell or reside for a time; to be temporary housed.
table: To insert, as one piece of timber into another, by alternatescores or projections from the middle, to prevent slipping; to scarf.
tableman: A man at draughts; a piece used in playing games at tables. SeeTable, n., 10. [R.] Bacon.
taborer: One who plays on the tabor. Shak.
tabret: A taboret. Young.
tabu: See Taboo.
tachydidaxy: A short or rapid method of instructing. [R.]
taciturn: Habitually silent; not given to converse; not apt to talk orspeak.-- Tac"i*turn*ly, adv.
tackey: See Tacky.
tactless: Destitute of tact.
tagbelt: Same as Tagsore. [Obs.]
taha: The African rufous-necked weaver bird (Hyphantornis texor).
tahaleb: A fox (Vulpes Niloticus) of Northern Africa.
tailblock: A block with a tail. See Tail, 9.
taint: To thrust ineffectually with a lance. [Obs.]
talc: A soft mineral of a soapy feel and a greenish, whitish, orgrayish color, usually occurring in foliated masses. It is hydroussilicate of magnesia. Steatite, or soapstone, is a compact granularvariety. Indurated talc, an impure, slaty talc, with a nearly compacttexture, and greater hardness than common talc; -- called also talcslate.
talesman: A person called to make up a deficiency in the number of jurorswhen a tales is awarded. Wharton.
talkative: Given to much talking.
tallowing: The act, or art, of causing animals to produce tallow; also,the property in animals of producing tallow.
tamer: One who tames or subdues.
tangent: A tangent line curve, or surface; specifically, that portion ofthe straight line tangent to a curve that is between the point oftangency and a given line, the given line being, for example, theaxis of abscissas, or a radius of a circle produced. SeeTrigonometrical function, under Function. Artificial, or Logarithmic,tangent, the logarithm of the natural tangent of an arc.-- Natural tangent, a decimal expressing the length of the tangentof an arc, the radius being reckoned unity.-- Tangent galvanometer (Elec.), a form of galvanometer having acircular coil and a short needle, in which the tangent of the angleof deflection of the needle is proportional to the strength of thecurrent.-- Tangent of an angle, the natural tangent of the arc subtending ormeasuring the angle.-- Tangent of an arc, a right line, as ta, touching the arc of acircle at one extremity a, and terminated by a line ct, passing fromthe center through the other extremity o.
tangentially: In the direction of a tangent.
tangibility: The quality or state of being tangible.
tanist: In Ireland, a lord or proprietor of a tract of land or of acastle, elected by a family, under the system of tanistry.This family [the O'Hanlons] were tanists of a large territory withinthe present county of Armagh. M. A. Lower.
tannage: A tanning; the act, operation, or result of tanning. [R.]They should have got his cheek fresh tannage. R. Browning.
tantalizer: One who tantalizes.
tantalizingly: In a tantalizing or teasing manner.
tantrum: A whim, or burst of ill-humor; an affected air. [Colloq.]Thackeray.
taoism: One of the popular religions of China, sanctioned by the state.-- Ta"o*ist, a. & n.
tapayaxin: A Mexican spinous lizard (Phrynosoma orbiculare) having a headsomewhat like that of a toad; -- called also horned toad.
tapetum: An area in the pigmented layer of the choroid coat of the eyein many animals, which has an iridescent or metallic luster and helpsto make the eye visible in the dark. Sometimes applied to the wholelayer of pigmented epithelium of the choroid.
tapeworm: Any one of numerous species of cestode worms belonging to Tæniaand many allied genera. The body is long, flat, and composed ofnumerous segments or proglottids varying in shape, those toward theend of the body being much larger and longer than the anterior ones,and containing the fully developed sexual organs. The head is small,destitute of a mouth, but furnished with two or more suckers (whichvary greatly in shape in different genera), and sometimes, also, withhooks for adhesion to the walls of the intestines of the animals inwhich they are parasitic. The larvæ (see Cysticercus) live in theflesh of various creatures, and when swallowed by another animal ofthe right species develop into the mature tapeworm in its intestine.See Illustration in Appendix.
taphrenchyma: Same as Bothrenchyma.
taplash: Bad small beer; also, the refuse or dregs of liquor. [Obs. orProv. Eng.]The taplash of strong ale and wine. Taylor (1630).
tarentism: See Tarantism.
targeted: Furnished, armed, or protected, with a target.
tartarize: To impregnate with, or subject to the action of, tartar. [R.]Tartarized antimony (Med. Chem.), tartar emetic.
tartarus: The infernal regions, described in the Iliad as situated as farbelow Hades as heaven is above the earth, and by later writers as theplace of punishment for the spirits of the wicked. By the laterpoets, also, the name is often used synonymously with Hades, or theLower World in general.
tartramide: An acid amide derivative of tartaric acid, obtained as a whitecrystalline substance.
tarweed: A name given to several resinous-glandular composite plants ofCalifornia, esp. to the species of Grindelia, Hemizonia, and Madia.
tastable: Capable of worthy of being tasted; savory; relishing.
tatter: One who makes tatting. Caulfield & S. (Doct. of Needlework).
tattler: Any one of several species of large, long-legged sandpipersbelonging to the genus Totanus.
tattoo: A beat of drum, or sound of a trumpet or bugle, at night,giving notice to soldiers to retreat, or to repair to their quartersin garrison, or to their tents in camp. The Devil's tattoo. See underDevil.
tau: The common American toadfish; -- so called from a markingresembling the Greek letter tau (t). Tau cross. See Illust. 6, ofCross.
taunting: from Taunt, v.Every kind of insolent and taunting reflection. Burke.
taverner: One who keeps a tavern. Chaucer. Camden.
taxicorn: One of a family of beetles (Taxicornes) whose antennæ arelargest at the tip. Also used adjectively.
teache: One of the series of boilers in which the cane juice is treatedin making sugar; especially, the last boiler of the series. Ure.
tearer: One who tears or rends anything; also, one who rages or raveswith violence.
teaspoon: A small spoon used in stirring and sipping tea, coffee, etc.,and for other purposes.
teaspoonful: As much as teaspoon will hold; enough to fill a teaspoon; --usually reckoned at a fluid dram or one quarter of a tablespoonful.
technique: Same as Technic, n.
tectorial: Of or pertaining to covering; -- applied to a membraneimmediately over the organ of Corti in the internal ear.
tectrices: The wing coverts of a bird. See Covert, and Illust. of Bird.
tecum: See Tucum.
tedium: Irksomeness; wearisomeness; tediousness. [Written also tædium.]Cowper.To relieve the tedium, he kept plying them with all manner of bams.Prof. Wilson.The tedium of his office reminded him more strongly of the willingscholar, and his thoughts were rambling. Dickens.
teeming: Prolific; productive.Teeming buds and cheerful appear. Dryden.
teest: A tinsmith's stake, or small anvil.
teeter: To move up and down on the ends of a balanced plank, or thelike, as children do for sport; to seesaw; to titter; to titter-totter. [U. S.][The bobolink] alit upon the flower, and teetered up and down. H. W.Beecher.
telamones: Same as Atlantes.
telehydrobarometer: An instrument for indicating the level of water in a distanttank or reservior.
telephoto: Telephotographic; specif., designating a lens consisting of acombination of lenses specially designed to give a large image of adistant object in a camera of relatively short focal length.
telepolariscope: A polariscope arranged to be attached to a telescope. Lockyer.
telescopically: In a telescopical manner; by or with the telescope.
telescopy: The art or practice of using or making telescopes.
telesm: A kind of amulet or magical charm. [Obs.] J. Gregory.
telestich: A poem in which the final letters of the lines, takenconsequently, make a name. Cf. Acrostic.
telharmonic: Of or pertaining to telharmonium.
telluret: A telluride. [Obsoles.]
tempestuous: Of or pertaining to a tempest; involving or resembling atempest; turbulent; violent; stormy; as, tempestuous weather; atempestuous night; a tempestuous debate.-- Tem*pes"tu*ous*ly, adv.-- Tem*pes"tu*ous*ness, n.They saw the Hebrew leader, Waiting, and clutching his tempestuousbeard. Longfellow.
template: Same as Templet.
tempo: The rate or degree of movement in time. A tempo giusto(joos"to) Etym
temporal: Of or pertaining to the temple or temples; as, the temporalbone; a temporal artery. Temporal bone, a very complex bone situatedin the side of the skull of most mammals and containing the organ ofhearing. It consists of an expanded squamosal portion above the ear,corresponding to the squamosal and zygoma of the lower vertebrates,and a thickened basal petrosal and mastoid portion, corresponding tothe periotic and tympanic bones of the lower vertebrates.
temps: Time. [Obs.] Chaucer.
temptability: The quality or state of being temptable; lability totemptation.
temptatious: Tempting. [Prov. Eng.]
tenability: The quality or state of being tenable; tenableness.
tenace: The holding by the fourth hand of the best and third best cardsof a suit led; also, sometimes, the combination of best with thirdbest card of a suit in any hand.
tenaculum: An instrument consisting of a fine, sharp hook attached to ahandle, and used mainly for taking up arteries, and the like.
tenantable: Fit to be rented; in a condition suitable for a tenant.-- Ten"ant*a*ble*ness, n.
tendosynovitis: See Tenosynovitis.
tendresse: Tender feeling; fondness. [Obs., except as a French word]
teneral: Of, pertaining to, or designating, a condition assumed by theimago of certain Neuroptera, after exclusion from the pupa. In thisstate the insect is soft, and has not fully attained its maturecoloring.
tenesmic: Of or pertaining to tenesmus; characterized by tenesmus.
tennu: The tapir.
tentage: A collection of tents; an encampment. [Obs.] Drayton.
tentative: Of or pertaining to a trial or trials; essaying; experimental."A slow, tentative manner." Carlyle.-- Ten*ta"tive*ly, adv.
tepefaction: Act of tepefying.
tepefy: To make or become tepid, or moderately warm. Goldsmith.
tepid: Moderately warm; lukewarm; as, a tepid bath; tepid rays; tepidvapors.-- Tep"id*ness, n.
teratoid: Resembling a monster; abnormal; of a pathological growth,exceedingly complex or highly organized. S. D. Gross.
terebinthinate: Impregnating with the qualities of turpentine; terbinthine.
terebrantia: A division of Hymenoptera including those which have anovipositor adapted for perforating plants. It includes the sawflies.
terebration: The act of terebrating, or boring. [R.] Bacon.
terebratula: A genus of brachiopods which includes many living and somefossil species. The larger valve has a perforated beak, through whichprojects a short peduncle for attachment. Called also lamp shell.
terebratulid: Any species of Terebratula or allied genera. Used alsoadjectively.
terek: A sandpiper (Terekia cinerea) of the Old World, breeding in thefar north of eastern Europe and Asia and migrating to South Africaand Australia. It frequents rivers.
teretous: Terete. [Obs.]
tergant: Showing the back; as, the eagle tergant. [Written alsotergiant.]
terrapin: Any one of numerous species of tortoises living in fresh andbrackish waters. Many of them are valued for food. [Written alsoterapin, terrapen, terrapene, and turapen.]
terrar: See 2d Terrier, 2.
tertial: Same as Tertiary.
tessellated: Marked like a checkerboard; as, a tessellated leaf.
tesseral: Isometric.
testacea: Invertebrate animals covered with shells, especially mollusks;shellfish.
testamentation: The act or power of giving by testament, or will. [R.] Burke.
testamur: A certificate of merit or proficiency; -- so called from theLatin words, Ita testamur, with which it commences.
testator: A man who makes and leaves a will, or testament, at death.
testiness: The quality or state of being testy; fretfulness; petulance.Testiness is a disposition or aptness to be angry. Locke.
testudinarious: Of or pertaining to the shell of a tortoise; resembling atortoise shell; having the color or markings of a tortoise shell.
testy: Fretful; peevish; petulant; easily irritated.Must I observe you must I stand and crouch Under your testy humorShak.I was displeased with myself; I was testy. Latimer.
tetanin: A poisonous base (ptomaine) formed in meat broth through theagency of a peculiar microbe from the wound of a person who has diedof tetanus; -- so called because it produces tetanus as one of itsprominent effects.
tetanization: The production or condition of tetanus.
tete: A kind of wig; false hair.
tetraboric: Same as Pyroboric.
tetradite: A person in some way remarkable with regard to the number four,as one born on the fourth day of the month, or one who reverencedfour persons in the Godhead. Smart.
tetrahedrally: In a tetrahedral manner.
tetrakosane: A hydrocarbon, C24H50, resembling paraffin, and like itbelonging to the marsh-gas series; -- so called from having twenty-four atoms of carbon in the molecule.
tetramerous: Having the parts arranged in sets of four; as, a tetramerousflower.
tetrameter: A verse or line consisting of four measures, that is, iniambic, trochaic, and anapestic verse, of eight feet; in other kindsof verse, of four feet.
tetraphenol: Furfuran. [Obs.]
tetrarchical: Of or pertaining to a tetrarch or tetrarchy. Bolingbroke.
tetrarchy: The district under a Roman tetrarch; the office or jurisdictionof a tetrarch; a tetrarchate.
tetraspermous: Having four seeds. Tetraspermous plant, a plant which producesfour seeds in each flower.
tetrazole: A crystalline acid substance, CH2N4, which may be regarded aspyrrol in which nitrogen atoms replace three CH groups; also, any ofvarious derivatives of the same.
tetryl: Butyl; -- so called from the four carbon atoms in the molecule.
tetterous: Having the character of, or pertaining to, tetter.
tettix: The cicada. [Obs. or R.]
tetty: Testy; irritable. [Obs.] Burton.
textorial: Of or pertaining to weaving. T. Warton.
thalamocoele: The cavity or ventricle of the thalamencephalon; the thirdventricle.
thalloid: Resembling, or consisting of, thallus.
thankworthy: Deserving thanks; worthy of gratitude; mreitorious.For this thankworthy, if a man, for conscience toward God, enduregrief, suffering wrongfully. 1 Pet. ii. 19.
theban: Of or pertaining to Thebes. Theban year (Anc. Chron.), theEgyptian year of 365 days and 6 hours. J. Bryant.
thematic: Of or pertaining to the theme of a word. See Theme, n., 4.
thenceforward: From that time onward; thenceforth.
theologist: A theologian.
theology: The science of God or of religion; the science which treats ofthe existence, character, and attributes of God, his laws andgovernment, the doctrines we are to believe, and the duties we are topractice; divinity; (as more commonly understood) "the knowledgederivable from the Scriptures, the systematic exhibition of revealedtruth, the science of Christian faith and life."Many speak of theology as a science of religion [instead of "scienceof God"] because they disbelieve that there is any knowledge of Godto be attained. Prof. R. Flint (Enc. Brit.).Theology is ordered knowledge; representing in the region of theintellect what religion represents in the heart and life of man.Gladstone.Ascetic theology, Natural theology. See Ascetic, Natural.-- Moral theology, that phase of theology which is concerned withmoral character and conduct.-- Revealed theology, theology which is to be learned only fromrevelation.-- Scholastic theology, theology as taught by the scholastics, or asprosecuted after their principles and methods.-- Speculative theology, theology as founded upon, or influenced by,speculation or metaphysical philosophy.-- Systematic theology, that branch of theology of which the aim isto reduce all revealed truth to a series of statements that togethershall constitute an organized whole. E. G. Robinson (Johnson's Cyc.).
theorbist: One who plays on a theorbo.
therapeutae: A name given to certain ascetics said to have anciently dweltin the neighborhood of Alexandria. They are described in a workattributed to Philo, the genuineness and credibility of which are nowmuch discredited.
therapeutics: That part of medical science which treats of the discovery andapplication of remedies for diseases.
therapy: Therapeutics.
thermantidote: A device for circulating and cooling the air, consistingessentially of a kind of roasting fan fitted in a window and incasedin wet tatties. [India]
thermocouple: A thermoelectric couple.
thermotactic: Of or retaining to thermotaxis.
thermotaxic: Pertaining to, or connected with, the regulation of temperaturein the animal body; as, the thermotaxic nervous system.
thessalian: Of or pertaining to Thessaly in Greece. Shak.-- n.
thetical: Laid down; absolute or positive, as a law. Dr. H. More.
thicken: To make thick (in any sense of the word). Specifically
thiderward: Thitherward. [Obs.]
thimble: Any thimble-shaped appendage or fixure. Specifically
thiocyanic: Same as Sulphocyanic.
thirdings: The third part of the corn or grain growing on the ground atthe tenant's death, due to the lord for a heriot, as within the manorof Turfat in Herefordshire.
thirl: To bore; to drill or thrill. See Thrill. [Obs. or Prov.]That with a spear was thirled his breast bone. Chaucer.
thitsee: The varnish tree of Burmah (Melanorrhoea usitatissima).
thooid: Of or pertaining to a group of carnivores, including the wovelsand the dogs.
thoracentesis: The operation of puncturing the chest wall so as to let outliquids contained in the cavity of the chest.
thoria: A rare white earthy substance, consisting of the oxide ofthorium; -- formerly called also thorina.
thorite: A mineral of a brown to black color, or, as in the varietyorangite, orange-yellow. It is essentially a silicate of thorium.
thorium: A metallic element found in certain rare minerals, as thorite,pyrochlore, monazite, etc., and isolated as an infusible graymetallic powder which burns in the air and forms thoria; -- formerlycalled also thorinum. Symbol Th. Atomic weight 232.0.
thoroughpaced: Perfect in what is undertaken; complete; going all lengths; as,a thoroughplaced Tory or Whig.If she be a thoroughplaced impostor. Sir W. Scott.
thoroughpin: A disease of the hock (sometimes of the knee) of a horse,caused by inflammation of the synovial membrane and a consequentexcessive secretion of the synovial fluid; -- probably so calledbecause there is usually an oval swelling on each side of the leg,appearing somewhat as if a pin had been thrust through.
thou: The second personal pronoun, in the singular number, denotingthe person addressed; thyself; the pronoun which is used inaddressing persons in the solemn or poetical style.Art thou he that should come Matt. xi. 3.
thracian: Of or pertaining to Thrace, or its people.-- n.
thraldom: The condition of a thrall; slavery; bondage; state ofservitude. [Written also thralldom.]Women are born to thraldom and penance And to be under man'sgovernance. Chaucer.He shall rule, and she in thraldom live. Dryden.
threadbareness: The state of being threadbare.
threadfin: Any one of several species of fishes belonging to Polynemus andallied genera. They have numerous long pectoral filaments.
threepence: A small silver coin of three times the value of a penny. [Eng.]
thrifallow: See Thryfallow, and Trifallow. [R.] Tusser.
throb: To beat, or pulsate, with more than usual force or rapidity; tobeat in consequence of agitation; to palpitate; -- said of the heart,pulse, etc.My heart Throbs to know one thing. Shak.Here may his head lie on my throbbing breast. Shak.
throne: A high order of angels in the celestial hierarchy; -- a meaninggiven by the schoolmen. Milton.Great Sire! whom thrones celestial ceaseless sing. Young.
throstle: The song thrush. See under Song.
thrown: a. & p. p. from Throw, v. Thrown silk, silk thread consistingof two or more singles twisted together like a rope, in a directioncontrary to that in which the singles of which it is composed aretwisted. M'Culloch.-- Thrown singles, silk thread or cord made by three processes oftwisting, first into singles, two or more of which are twistedtogether making dumb singles, and several of these twisted togetherto make thrown singles.
thrustle: The throstle, or song thrust. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.]When he heard the thrustel sing. Chaucer.
thryes: Thrice. [Obs.] Chaucer.
thuja: A genus of evergreen trees, thickly branched, remarkable forthe distichous arrangement of their branches, and having scalelike,closely imbricated, or compressed leaves. [Written also thuya.] SeeThyine wood.
thumb: The short, thick first digit of the human hand, differing fromthe other fingers in having but two phalanges; the pollex. SeePollex.Upon his thumb he had of gold a ring. Chaucer.Thumb band, a twist of anything as thick as the thumb. Mortimer.-- Thumb blue, indigo in the form of small balls or lumps, used bywasherwomen to blue linen, and the like.-- Thumb latch, a door latch having a lever formed to be pressed bythe thumb.-- Thumb mark. (a) The mark left by the impression of a thumb, as onthe leaves of a book. Longfellow. (b) The dark spot over each foot infinely bred black and tan terriers.-- Thumb nut, a nut for a screw, having wings to grasp between thethumb and fingers in turning it; also, a nut with a knurled rim forthe same perpose.-- Thumb ring, a ring worn on the thumb. Shak.-- Thumb stall. (a) A kind of thimble or ferrule of iron, orleather, for protecting the thumb in making sails, and in other work.(b) (Mil.) A buckskin cushion worn on the thumb, and used to closethe vent of a cannon while it is sponged, or loaded.-- Under one's thumb, completely under one's power or influence; ina condition of subservience. [Colloq.]
thurification: The act of fuming with incense, or the act of burning incense.
thwack: A heavy blow with something flat or heavy; a thump.With many a stiff thwack, many a bang, Hard crab tree and old ironrang. Hudibras.
thwartly: Transversely; obliquely.
thymic: Of or pertaining to the thymus gland.
thyroideal: Thyroid.
thysanoptera: A division of insects, considered by some writers a distinctorder, but regarded by others as belonging to the Hemiptera. They areall of small size, and have narrow, broadly fringed wings withrudimentary nervures. Most of the species feed upon the juices ofplants, and some, as those which attack grain, are very injurious tocrops. Called also Physopoda. See Thrips.
thysanura: An order of wingless hexapod insects which have setiform caudalappendages, either bent beneath the body to form a spring, orprojecting as bristles. It comprises the Cinura, or bristletails, andthe Collembola, or springtails. Called also Thysanoura. See Lepisma,and Podura.
tick: Credit; trust; as, to buy on, or upon, tick.
tie: A beam or rod for holding two parts together; in railways, oneof the transverse timbers which support the track and keep it inplace.
tikus: The bulau.
til: See Till. [Obs.] Chaucer.
tilde: The accentual mark placed over n, and sometimes over l, inSpanish words [thus, ñ, l], indicating that, in pronunciation, thesound of the following vowel is to be preceded by that of theinitial, or consonantal, y.
timaline: Of or pertaining to the genus Timalus or family Timalidæ, whichincludes the babblers thrushes, and bulbuls.
timberhead: The top end of a timber, rising above the gunwale, and servingfor belaying ropes, etc.; -- called also kevel head.
timberwork: Work made of timbers.
timburine: A tambourine. [Obs.]
time: Tense.
timeserving: Obsequiously complying with the spirit of the times, or thehumors of those in power.
timist: A performer who keeps good time.
tinct: Tined; tinged. [Archaic] Spenser.
tineman: An officer of the forest who had the care of vert and venisonby night. [Obs.]
tingent: Having the power to tinge. [R.]As for the white part, it appears much less enriched with the tingentproperty. Boyle.
tinger: One who, or that which, tinges.
tingid: Of or pertaining to the genus Tingis.
tipula: Any one of many species of long-legged dipterous insectsbelonging to Tipula and allied genera. They have long and slenderbodies. See Crane fly, under Crane.
tisic: Consumption; phthisis. See Phthisis.
tissued: Clothed in, or adorned with, tissue; also, variegated; as,tissued flowers. Cowper.And crested chiefs and tissued dames Assembled at the clarion's call.T. Warton.
tithonicity: The state or property of being tithonic; actinism. [R.]
titlark: Any one of numerous small spring birds belonging to Anthus,Corydalla, and allied genera, which resemble the true larks in colorand in having a very long hind claw; especially, the European meadowpipit (Anthus pratensis).
titleless: Not having a title or name; without legitimate title. "Atitleless tyrant." Chaucer.
titmal: The blue titmouse. [Prov. Eng.]
tittlebat: The three-spined stickleback. [Prov. Eng.]
titulary: A person invested with a title, in virtue of which he holds anoffice or benefice, whether he performs the duties of it or not.
tivoli: A game resembling bagatelle, played on a special oblong boardor table (Tivoli board or table), which has a curved upper end, a setof numbered compartments at the lower end, side alleys, and thesurface studded with pins and sometimes furnished with numbereddepressions or cups.
toadflax: An herb (Linaria vulgaris) of the Figwort family, having narrowleaves and showy orange and yellow flowers; -- called also butter andeggs, flaxweed, and ramsted.
toadhead: The golden plover. [Local, U.S.]
toadstone: A local name for the igneous rocks of Derbyshire, England; --said by some to be derived from the German todter stein, meaning deadstone, that is, stone which contains no ores.
toadyism: The practice of meanly fawning on another; base sycophancy;servile adulation.
tockay: A spotted lizard native of India.
tocororo: A cuban trogon (Priotelus temnurus) having a serrated bill anda tail concave at the end.
toght: Taut. [Obs.] Chaucer.
togs: Clothes; garments; toggery. [Colloq. or Slang]
tohubohu: Chaos; confusion.
toilette: See Toilet, 3.
tokay: A grape of an oval shape and whitish color.
token: A livid spot upon the body, indicating, or supposed toindicate, the approach of death. [Obs.]Like the fearful tokens of the plague, Are mere forerunners of theirends. Beau. & Fl.
tollable: Subject to the payment of toll; as, tollable goods. Wright.
tolu: A fragrant balsam said to have been first brought from Santiagode Tolu, in New Granada. See Balsam of Tolu, under Balsam. Tolu tree(Bot.), a large tree (Myroxylon toluiferum), the wood of which is redin the center, and has an aromatic rose odor. It affords the balsamcalled tolu.
tombless: Destitute of a tomb.
tomentous: Tomentose.
tomfoolery: Folly; trifling.
tomopteris: A genus of transparent marine annelids which swim actively atthe surface of the sea. They have deeply divided or forked finlikeorgans (parapodia). This genus is the type of the order, or suborder,Gymnocopa.
tonality: The principle of key in music; the character which acomposition has by virtue of the key in which it is written, orthrough the family relationship of all its tones and chords to thekeynote, or tonic, of the whole.The predominance of the tonic as the link which connects all thetones of a piece, we may, with Fétis, term the principle of tonality.Helmholtz.
toneless: Having no tone; unmusical.
tony: A simpleton. L'Estrange.A pattern and companion fit For all the keeping tonies of the pit.Dryden.
toothlet: A little tooth, or like projection.
toothwort: A plant whose roots are fancied to resemble teeth, as certainplants of the genus Lathræa, and various species of Dentaria. SeeCoralwort.
top: A plug, or conical block of wood, with longitudital grooves onits surface, in which the strands of the rope slide in the process oftwisting.
tophin: Same as Toph.
toponymy: A system of toponyms; the use of toponyms. -- To*pon"y*mal (#),Top`o*nym"ic (#), Top`o*nym"ic*al (#), a.
torchlight: The light of a torch, or of torches. Also adjectively; as, atorchlight procession.
tore: imp. of Tear.
torn: p. p. of Tear.
tornado: A violent whirling wind; specifically (Meteorol.), a tempestdistinguished by a rapid whirling and slow progressive motion,usually accompaned with severe thunder, lightning, and torrents ofrain, and commonly of short duration and small breadth; a smallcyclone.
torsade: A twisted cord; also, a molded or worked ornament of similarform.
torso: The human body, as distinguished from the head and limbs; insculpture, the trunk of a statue, mutilated of head and limbs; as,the torso of Hercules.
torticollis: See Wryneck.
tortricid: Of or pertaining to Tortix, or the family Tortricidæ.
tosser: Ohe who tosser. J. Fletcher.
totalizator: A machine for registering and indicating the number and natureof bets made on horse races, as in Australia and South Africa. Calledalso totalizer.
totalness: The quality or state of being total; entireness; totality.
totipresence: Omnipresence. [Obs.] A. Tucker.
totipresent: Omnipresence. [Obs.] A. Tucker.
toucanet: A small toucan.
touchstone: Lydian stone; basanite; -- so called because used to test thepurity of gold and silver by the streak which is left upon the stonewhen it is rubbed by the metal. See Basanite.
touraco: Same as Turacou.
tournure: To pull; to haul; to tear; to worry. [Prov. Eng.] Shak.As a bear, whom angry curs have touzed. Spenser.
towilly: The sanderling; -- so called from its cry. [Prov. Eng.]
townhall: A public hall or building, belonging to a town, where thepublic offices are established, the town council meets, the peopleassemble in town meeting, etc.
toxicological: Of or pertaining to toxicology.-- Tox`i*co*log"ic*al*ly, adv.
toxicology: The science which treats of poisons, their effects, antidotes,and recignition; also, a discourse or treatise on the science.
toyman: One who deals toys.
toze: To pull violently; to touse. [Obs.]
tracheary: Tracheal; breathing by means of tracheæ.-- n. (Zoöl.)
trachelipod: One of the Trachelipoda.
trackage: The act of tracking, or towing, as a boat; towage.
tract: A written discourse or dissertation, generally of short extent;a short treatise, especially on practical religion.The church clergy at that writ the best collection of tracts againstpopery that ever appeared. Swift.Tracts for the Times. See Tractarian.
tractite: A Tractarian.
tragedious: Like tragedy; tragical. [Obs.] "Tragedious history." Fabyan.
trainbearer: One who holds up a train, as of a robe.
trammeled: Having blazes, or white marks, on the fore and hind foot of oneside, as if marked by trammels; -- said of a horse. [Written alsotrammelled.]
trampler: One who tramples; one who treads down; as, a trampler onnature's law. Cowper.
tramrail: An overhead rail forming a track on which a trolley runs toconvey a load, as in a shop.
tranquillity: The quality or state of being tranquil; calmness; composure.
transcontinental: Extending or going across a continent; as, a transcontinentalrailroad or journey.
transcriber: One who transcribes, or writes from a copy; a copier; acopyist.
transe: See Trance. [Obs.]
transfiguration: A feast held by some branches of the Christian church on the6th of August, in commemoration of the miraculous change abovementioned.
transit: To pass over the disk of (a heavenly body).
translator: A repeating instrument. [Eng.]
translatorship: The office or dignity of a translator.
transmissibility: The quality of being transmissible.
transnature: To transfer or transform the nature of. [Obs.]We are transelemented, or transnatured. Jewel.
transpadane: Lying or being on the further side of the river Po withreference to Rome, that is, on the north side; -- opposed tocispadane.
transpeciate: To change from one species to another; to transform. [Obs.]Power to transpeciate a man into a horse. Sir T. Browne.
transpirable: Capable of being transpired, or of transpiring.
transplendency: Quality or state of being transplendent. [R.] Dr. H. More.
transshipment: The act of transshipping, or transferring, as goods, from oneship or conveyance to another. [Written also transhipment.]
transude: To pass, as perspirable matter does, through the pores orinterstices of textures; as, liquor may transude through leather orwood.
trapanner: One who trapans, or insnares.
trapezium: A plane figure bounded by four right lines, of which no two areparallel.
traumatism: A wound or injury directly produced by causes external to thebody; also, violence producing a wound or injury; as, rupture of thestomach caused by traumatism.
traverse: Lying across; being in a direction across something else; as,paths cut with traverse trenches.Oak . . . being strong in all positions, may be better trusted incross and traverse work. Sir H. Wotton.The ridges of the fallow field traverse. Hayward.Traverse drill (Mach.), a machine tool for drilling slots, in whichthe work or tool has a lateral motion back and forth; also, adrilling machine in which the spindle holder can be adjustedlaterally.
treader: One who treads. Isa. xvi. 10.
treadle: The chalaza of a bird's egg; the tread.
treasonable: Pertaining to treason; consisting of treason; involving thecrime of treason, or partaking of its guilt.Most men's heads had been intoxicated with imaginations of plots andtreasonable practices. Clarendon.
treatable: Manageable; tractable; hence, moderate; not violent. [Obs.] " Atreatable disposition, a strong memory." R. Parr.A kind of treatable dissolution. Hooker.The heats or the colds of seasons are less treatable than with us.Sir W. Temple.
treblet: Same as Triblet.
tree: Any perennial woody plant of considerable size (usually overtwenty feet high) and growing with a single trunk.
tremie: An apparatus for depositing and consolidating concrete underwater, essentially a tube of wood or sheet metal with a hooperliketop. It is usually handled by a crane.
trepid: Trembling; quaking. Thackeray.
trews: Trowsers; especially, those of the Scotch Highlanders. "He worethe trews, or close trowsers, made of tartan." Sir W. Scott.
triaconter: A vessel with thirty banks of oars, or, as some say, thirtyranks of rowers.
triamine: An amine containing three amido groups.
tribe: A number of species or genera having certain structuralcharacteristics in common; as, a tribe of plants; a tribe of animals.
tribune: An officer or magistrate chosen by the people, to protect themfrom the oppression of the patricians, or nobles, and to defend theirliberties against any attempts that might be made upon them by thesenate and consuls.
trichina: A small, slender nematoid worm (Trichina spiralis) which, inthe larval state, is parasitic, often in immense numbers, in thevoluntary muscles of man, the hog, and many other animals. Wheninsufficiently cooked meat containing the larvæ is swallowed by man,they are liberated and rapidly become adult, pair, and theovoviviparous females produce in a short time large numbers of youngwhich find their way into the muscles, either directly, or indirectlyby means of the blood. Their presence in the muscles and theintestines in large numbers produces trichinosis.
trichinoscope: An apparatus for the detection of trichinæ in the flesh ofanimals, as of swine.
trichiuriform: Like or pertaining to the genus Trichiurus or familyTrichiuridæ, comprising the scabbard fishes and hairtails.
trichocyst: A lasso cell.
trichoscolices: An extensive group of wormlike animals characterized by beingmore or less covered with cilia.
trichotomy: Division into three parts.
tricky: Given to tricks; practicing deception; trickish; knavish.
tricrotic: Of or pertaining to tricrotism; characterized by tricrotism.
tricycle: A three-wheeled velocipede. See Illust. under Velocipede. Cf.Bicycle.
trieterics: Festival games celebrated once in three years. [R.] May.
trifallow: To plow the third time before sowing, as land. Mortimer.
trifid: Cleft to the middle, or slightly beyond the middle, into threeparts; three-cleft.
trifistulary: Having three pipes. Sir T. Browne.
trigastric: Having three bellies; -- said of a muscle. Dunglison.
triglyceride: A glyceride formed by the replacement of three hydrogen atomsin glycerin by acid radicals.
trigness: The quality or state of being trig; smartness; neatness.Their spars had no man-of-war trigness. Kane.
trigonia: A genus of pearly bivalve shells, numerous extinct species ofwhich are characteristic of the Mesozoic rocks. A few living speciesexist on the coast of Australia.
trihybrid: A hybrid whose parents differ by three pairs of contrastingMendelian characters.
trillachan: The oyster catcher. [Prov. Eng.]
trimesitic: Of, pertaining to, or designating, a tribasic acid,C6H3.(CO2)3, of the aromatic series, obtained, by the oxidation ofmesitylene, as a white crystalline substance. [Written alsotrimesic.]
trimestrial: Of or pertaining to a trimester, or period of three months;occurring once in every three months; quarterly.
trinitarian: Of or pertaining to the Trinity, the doctrine of the Trinity,or believers in that doctrine.
trinketer: One who trinkets. [Obs.]
triolein: See Olein.
triphylite: A mineral of a grayish-green or bluish color, consisting of thephosphates of iron, manganese, and lithia.
trippant: See Tripping, a., 2.
trippingly: In a tripping manner; with a light, nimble, quick step; withagility; nimbly.Sing, and dance it trippingly. Shak.Speak the speech . . . trippingly on the tongue. Shak.
triptote: A noun having three cases only.
triquetrum: One of the bones of the carpus; the cuneiform. See Cuneiform(b).
trispermous: Containing three seeds; three-seeded; as, a trispermouscapsule.
trist: To trust. [Obs.] Chaucer.
tristy: See Trist, a. [Obs.] Ashmole.
trityl: Propyl. [R.]
triumphantly: In a triumphant manner.
triungulus: The active young larva of any oil beetle. It has feet armedwith three claws, and is parasitic on bees. See Illust. of Oilbeetle, under Oil.
trochantine: The second joint of the leg of an insect, -- often united withthe coxa.
trochilos: The crocodile bird, or trochil.
trochleary: Pertaining to, or connected with, a trochlea; trochlear; as,the trochleary, or trochlear, nerve.
troco: An old English game; -- called also lawn billiards.
trode: imp. of Tread.On burnished hooves his war-horse trode. Tennyson.
trogue: A wooden trough, forming a drain. Raymond.
trollop: A stroller; a loiterer; esp., an idle, untidy woman; aslattern; a slut; a whore.
troopmeal: By troops; in crowds. [Obs.]So, troopmeal, Troy pursued a while, laying on with swords and darts.Chapman.
trophosperm: The placenta.
trouse: Trousers. [Obs.] Spenser.
troutbird: The American golden plover. [Local, U. S.]
truckman: One who does business in the way of barter or exchange.
true: In accordance with truth; truly. Shak.
truffled: Provided or cooked with truffles; stuffed with truffles; as, atruffled turkey.
trumplike: Resembling a trumpet, esp. in sound; as, a trumplike voice.Chapman.
truncal: Of or pertaining to the trunk, or body.
trunk: That part of a pilaster which is between the base and thecapital, corresponding to the shaft of a column.
trunkwork: Work or devices suitable to be concealed; a secret stratagem.[Obs.]
truthless: Devoid of truth; dishonest; dishonest; spurious; faithless.-- Truth"less*ness, n.
trutination: The act of weighing. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
tube: The narrow, hollow part of a gamopetalous corolla.
tuberculosis: A constitutional disease characterized by the production oftubercles in the internal organs, and especially in the lungs, whereit constitutes the most common variety of pulmonary consumption.
tubicorn: Any ruminant having horns composed of a bony axis covered witha horny sheath; a hollow-horned ruminant.
tubularian: Any hydroid belonging to the suborder Tubularida.
tubulature: A tubulure.
tucet: See Tucket, a steak. [Obs.]
tudor: Of or pertaining to a royal line of England, descended fromOwen Tudor of Wales, who married the widowed queen of Henry V. Thefirst reigning Tudor was Henry VII.; the last, Elizabeth. Tudor style(Arch.), the latest development of Gothic architecture in England,under the Tudors, characterized by flat four-centered arches, shallowmoldings, and a profusion of paneling on the walls.
tuefall: See To-fall. [Eng.]
tumefaction: The act or process of tumefying, swelling, or rising into atumor; a swelling. Arbuthnot.
tumescence: The act of becoming tumid; the state of being swollen;intumescence.
tumescent: Slightly tumid; swollen, as certain moss capsules.
tuneful: Harmonious; melodious; musical; as, tuneful notes. " Tunefulbirds." Milton.-- Tune"ful*ly, adv.-- Tune"ful*ness, n.
tunicle: A short, close-fitting vestment worn by bishops under thedalmatic, and by subdeacons.
tunker: Same as Dunker.
turacou: Any one of several species of plantain eaters of the genusTuracus, native of Africa. They are remarkable for the peculiar greenand red pigments found in their feathers. [Written also touraco, andtouracou.]
turban: The whole set of whorls of a spiral shell.
turbary: A right of digging turf on another man's land; also, the groundwhere turf is dug.
turfless: Destitute of turf.
turgesce: To become turgid; to swell or be inflated. [R.]
turio: A shoot or sprout from the ground. Gray.
turioniferous: Producing shoots, as asparagus. Barton.
turkis: Turquois. [Obs.]
turmaline: See Tourmaline.
turmerol: Turmeric oil, a brownish yellow, oily substance extracted fromturmeric by ligroin.
turnicimorphae: A division of birds including Turnix and allied genera,resembling quails in appearance but differing from them anatomically.
tusk: Same as Torsk.
tussle: To struggle, as in sport; to scuffle; to struggle with.[Colloq.]
tuyere: A nozzle, mouthpiece, or fixture through which the blast isdelivered to the interior of a blast furnace, or to the fire of aforge. [Corruptly written also tweer, and twier.] Tuyère arch, theembrasure, in the wall of a blast furnace through which the tuyèreenters.
twagger: A lamb. [Prov. Eng.]
twankay: See Note under Tea, n., 1.
twattler: One who twattles; a twaddler.
twelve: One more that eleven; two and ten; twice six; a dozen. Twelve-men's morris. See the Note under Morris.-- Twelve Tables. (Rom. Antiq.) See under Table.
twifallow: To plow, or fallow, a second time (land that has been oncefallowed).
twisting: a. & n. from Twist. Twisting pair. (Kinematics) See under Pair,n., 7.
two: One and one; twice one. "Two great lights." Gen. i. 16. "Twoblack clouds." Milton.
twopenny: Of the value of twopence.
tyler: See 2d Tiler.
tympanal: Tympanic.
typo: A compositor. [Colloq.]
tyrannous: Tyrannical; arbitrary; unjustly severe; despotic. Sir P.Sidney.-- Tyr"an*nous*ly, adv.
udometer: A rain gauge.
ugrian: A Mongolian race, ancestors of the Finns. [Written alsoUigrian.]
ulcer: A solution of continuity in any of the soft parts of the body,discharging purulent matter, found on a surface, especially one ofthe natural surfaces of the body, and originating generally in aconstitutional disorder; a sore discharging pus. It is distinguishedfrom an abscess, which has its beginning, at least, in the depth ofthe tissues.
ulcerated: Affected with, or as with, an ulcer or ulcers; as, an ulceratedsore throat.
ulcered: Ulcerous; ulcerated.
ulema: A college or corporation in Turkey composed of the hierarchy,namely, the imams, or ministers of religion, the muftis, or doctorsof law, and the cadis, or administrators of justice.
ullet: A European owl (Syrnium aluco) of a tawny color; -- called alsouluia.
ulmate: A salt of ulmic acid.
ulmic: Pertaining to ulmin; designating an acid obtained from ulmin.
ulonata: A division of insects nearly equivalent to the true Orthoptera.
ulotrichous: Having woolly or crispy hair; -- opposed to leiotrichous.
ultramundane: Being beyond the world, or beyond the limits of our system.Boyle.
ululation: A howling, as of a dog or wolf; a wailing.He may fright others with his ululation. Wither.
umbles: The entrails and coarser parts of a deer; hence, sometimes,entrails, in general. [Written also humbles.] Johnson.
umbril: A umbrere. [Obs.]
unabled: Disabled. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
unaccessible: Inaccessible. Herbert.
unactive: Inactive; listless. [R.]While other animals unactive range. Milton.
unalmsed: Not having received alms. [Obs. & R.] Pollock.
unambiguity: Absence of ambiguity; clearness; perspicuity.
unamiability: The quality or state of being unamiable; moroseness.
unanimate: Unanimous. [Obs.]
unbeat: To deliver from the form or nature of a beast.
unbehovely: Not behooving or becoming; unseemly. [Obs. & R.] Gower.
unbishop: To deprive, as a city, of a bishop; to deprive, as a clergyman,of episcopal dignity or rights. [R.] "Then he unbishops himself."Milton.
unboot: To take off the boots from.
unbowed: Not bent or arched; not bowed down. Byron.
unbridle: To free from the bridle; to set loose.
unbuckle: To loose the buckles of; to unfasten; as, to unbuckle a shoe."Unbuckle anon thy purse." Chaucer.
uncage: To loose, or release, from, or as from, a cage.
uncapper: An instrument for removing an explode cap from a cartridgeshell.
uncertain: To make uncertain. [Obs.] Sir W. Raleigh.
unchain: To free from chains or slavery; to let loose. Prior.
unchastity: The quality or state of being unchaste; lewdness; incontinence.
unchristianly: Unchristian. Milton.
uncinatum: The unciform bone.
uncinus: One of the peculiar minute chitinous hooks found in largenumbers in the tori of tubicolous annelids belonging to the Uncinata.
unclench: Same as Unclinch.
uncloud: To free from clouds; to unvail; to clear from obscurity, gloom,sorrow, or the like. Beau. & Fl.
unconceivable: Inconceivable. [Obs.] Locke.-- Un`con*ceiv"a*ble*ness, n. [Obs.] -- Un`con*ceiv"a*bly, adv.[Obs.]
undecennial: Occurring or observed every eleventh year; belonging to, orcontinuing, a period of eleven years; undecennary; as, an undecennialfestival.
underaid: To aid clandestinely. [Obs.]
undercurrent: Running beneath the surface; hidden. [R.] "Undercurrent woe."Tennyson.
undergraduate: A member of a university or a college who has not taken hisfirst degree; a student in any school who has not completed hiscourse.
underhangman: An assistant or deputy hangman. Shak.
underheave: To heave or lift from below. [Obs.] Wyclif.
underlaborer: An assistant or subordinate laborer. Locke.
underlock: A lock of wool hanging under the belly of a sheep.
underpeopled: Not fully peopled.
underproduction: The production of less than is demanded or of less than theusual supply. F. A. Walker.
undersay: To say by way of derogation or contradiction. [Obs.] Spenser.
undershrub: Partly shrublike.
underskinker: Undertapster. [Obs.]
undersleeve: A sleeve of an under-garment; a sleeve worn under another,
undersoil: The soil beneath the surface; understratum; subsoil.
understander: One who understands, or knows by experience. [R.] Dryden.
undertapster: Assistant to a tapster.
undubitable: Indubitable; as, an undubitable principle. [Obs.] Locke.
uneasily: In an uneasy manner.
unemployment: Quality or state of being not employed; -- used esp. ineconomics, of the condition of various social classes whentemporarily thrown out of employment, as those engaged for shortperiods, those whose trade is decaying, and those least competent.
unerringly: In an unerring manner.
unexcusable: Inexcusable. Hayward.-- Un`ex*cus"a*ble*ness, n.
unexpert: Not expert; inexpert. Milton.
unfailing: Not failing; not liable to fail; inexhaustible; certain; sure.Dryden.-- Un*fail"ing*ly, adv.-- Un*fail"ing*ness, n.
unfasten: To loose; to unfix; to unbind; to untie.
unfavorable: Not favorable; not propitious; adverse; contrary; discouraging.-- Un*fa"vor*a*ble*ness, n.-- Un*fa"vor*a*bly, adv.
unfellowed: Being without a fellow; unmatched; unmated. Shak.
unfestlich: Unfit for a feast; hence, jaded; worn. [Obs.] Chaucer.
unfilial: Unsuitable to a son or a daughter; undutiful; not becoming achild.-- Un*fil"ial*ly, adv.
unflesh: To deprive of flesh; to reduce a skeleton. "Unfleshedhumanity." Wordsworth.
unflower: To strip of flowers. [R.] G. Fletcher.
unforgettable: Not forgettable; enduring in memory.Pungent and unforgettable truths. Emerson.
unfreeze: To thaw. [Obs.]
unfret: To smooth after being fretted. [Obs.]
unfrock: To deprive or divest or a frock; specifically, to deprive ofpriestly character or privilege; as, to unfrock a priest.
ungored: Not stained with gore; not bloodied. Sylvester.
ungueal: Ungual.
unguestlike: In a manner not becoming to a guest. [R.] Milton.
unhap: Ill luck; misfortune. [Obs.] "The cause of her unhap." Sir P.Sidney.
unhat: To take off the hat of; to remove one's hat, especially as amark of respect. H. Spenser.
unhele: Same as Unheal, n. [Obs.]
unhoard: To take or steal from a hoard; to pilfer. Milton.
unhoped: Not hoped or expected. "With unhoped success." Dryden.Blessings of friends, which to my door Unasked, unhoped, have come.J. N. Newman.
unhospitable: Inhospitable.
unhouse: To drive from a house or habitation; to dislodge; hence, todeprive of shelter.
unhoused: Driven from a house; deprived of shelter.
unhusked: Not husked; having the husk on.
uniclinal: See Nonoclinal.
unicornous: Having but a single horn; -- said of certain insects."Unicornous beetles." Sir T. Browne.
unilocular: Having one cell or cavity only; as, a unilocular capsule orshell.
unincumbered: Free from any temporary estate or interest, or from mortgage,or other charge or debt; as, an estate unincumbered with dower.
unipersonalist: One who believes that the Deity is unipersonal.
unique: Being without a like or equal; unmatched; unequaled;unparalleled; single in kind or excellence; sole.-- U*nique"ly, adv.-- U*nique"ness, n.
uniserial: Having only one row or series.
unit: The least whole number; one.Units are the integral parts of any large number. I. Watts.
unitarian: One who denies the doctrine of the Trinity, believing that Godexists only in one person; a unipersonalist; also, one of adenomination of Christians holding this belief.
universological: Of or pertaining to universology.
univocacy: The quality or state of being univocal. [R.] Sir T. Browne.
univocally: In a univocal manner; in one term; in one sense; notequivocally.How is sin univocally distinguished into venial and mortal, if thevenial be not sin Bp. Hall.
unlace: To loose, and take off, as a bonnet from a sail, or to castoff, as any lacing in any part of the rigging of a vessel. Totten.
unlawful: Not lawful; contrary to law.-- Un*law"ful*ly, adv.-- Un*law"ful*ness, n. Unlawful assembly. (Law) See under Assembly.
unlikeness: The quality or state of being unlike; want of resemblance;dissimilarity. Tennyson.
unlimber: To detach the limber from; as, to unlimber a gun.
unlimitable: Illimitable. Locke.
unlooked: Not observed or foreseen; unexpected; -- generally with for."Unlooked success." Denham.She comes unlooked for, if she comes at all. Pope.
unloosen: To loosen; to unloose.
unmake: To destroy the form and qualities of; to deprive of being; touncreate.God does not make or unmake things to try experiments. T. Burnet.
unmew: To release from confinement or restraint. Keats.
unneighbored: Being without neigbors. Cowper.
unoften: Not often. [Obs.]
unpaint: To remove the paint from; to efface, as a painting. Parnell.
unpassable: Impassable. E. A. Freeman.-- Un*pass"a*ble*ness, n. Evelyn.
unpastor: To cause to be no longer pastor; to deprive of pastorship. [R.]Fuller.
unpathwayed: Pathless. [R.] "The smooth, unpathwayed plain." Wordsworth.
unperplex: To free from perplexity. [R.] Donne.
unphilosophize: To degrade from the character of a philosopher. [R.] Pope.
unplat: To take out the folds or twists of, as something previouslyplatted; to unfold; to unwreathe.
unpolitic: Impolitic; imprudent.
unpray: To revoke or annul by prayer, as something previously prayedfor. [R.] Sir M. Hale.
unqualitied: Deprived of the usual faculties. [Obs.] Shak.
unqueen: To divest of the rank or authority of queen. Shak.
unreadiness: The quality or state of being unready.
unreformation: Want of reformation; state of being unreformed. [Obs.] Bp.Hall.
unremembrance: Want of remembrance; forgetfulness. I. Watts.
unreverence: Absence or lack of reverence; irreverence. [Obs.] Wyclif.
unruly: Not submissive to rule; disregarding restraint; disposed toviolate; turbulent; ungovernable; refractory; as, an unruly boy;unruly boy; unruly conduct.But the tongue can no man tame; it is an unruly evil, full of deadlypoison. James iii. 8.
unsadden: To relieve from sadness; to cheer. [R.] Whitlock.
unsaintly: Unbecoming to a saint. Gauden.
unsaturated: Capable of taking up, or of uniting with, certain otherelements or compounds, without the elimination of any side product;thus, aldehyde, ethylene, and ammonia are unsaturated.
unsaturation: The quality or state of being unsaturated.
unseemly: Not seemly; unbecoming; indecent.An unseemly outbreak of temper. Hawthorne.
unseminared: Deprived of virility, or seminal energy; made a eunuch. [Obs.]
unsettledness: The quality or state of being unsettled.
unsex: To deprive of sex, or of qualities becoming to one's sex; esp.,to make unfeminine in character, manners, duties, or the like; as, tounsex a woman.
unshackle: To loose from shackles or bonds; to set free from restraint; tounfetter. Addison.
unsheriff: To depose from the office of sheriff. [R.]
unshot: To remove the shot from, as from a shotted gun; to unload.
unsightable: Invisible. [Obs.]
unsolder: To separate or disunite, as what has been soldered; hence, todivide; to sunder. [Formerly written also unsoder.] Tennyson.
unsound: Not sound; not whole; not solid; defective; infirm; diseased.-- Un*sound"ly, adv.-- Un*sound"ness, n.
unspar: To take the spars, stakes, or bars from. [R.] Sir W. Scott.
unsped: Not performed; not dispatched. [Obs.] Garth.
unspike: To remove a spike from, as from the vent of a cannon.
unstable: Not stable; not firm, fixed, or constant; subject to change oroverthrow.-- Un*sta"ble*ness, n. Chaucer. Unstable equilibrium. See Stableequilibrium, under Stable.
unstriped: Without marks or striations; nonstriated; as, unstriped musclefibers.
unsubstantialize: To make unsubstantial. [R.]
unsuffering: Inability or incapability of enduring, or of being endured.[Obs.] Wyclif.
unsurmountable: Insurmountable. Locke.
unthriftfully: Not thriftily. [Obs.] "Unthriftfully spent." Sir J. Cheke.
untomb: To take from the tomb; to exhume; to disinter. Fuller.
untrunked: Separated from its trunk or stock. [Obs.]
untrust: Distrust. [Obs.] Chaucer.
unvail: See Unveil.
unvisard: To take the vizard or mask from; to unmask. [Written alsounvizard.] [Obs.] Milton.
unwarp: To restore from a warped state; to cause to be linger warped.
unweighing: Not weighing or pondering; inconsiderate. Shak.
unwellness: , n. Quality or state of being unwell.
unwitting: Not knowing; unconscious; ignorant.-- Un*wit"ting*ly, adv.
unworthy: Not worthy; wanting merit, value, or fitness; undeserving;worthless; unbecoming; -- often with of.-- Un*wor"thi*ly, adv.-- Un*wor"thi*ness, n.
unwrap: To open or undo, as what is wrapped or folded. Chaucer.
upblow: To inflate. [Obs.] Spenser.
upcoil: To coil up; to make into a coil, or to be made into a coil.
updive: To spring upward; to rise. [R.] Davies (Microcosmos).
uphand: Lifted by the hand, or by both hands; as, the uphand sledge.[R.] Moxon.
uphoard: To hoard up. [Obs.] Shak.
uplander: The upland sandpiper. [Local, U. S.]
uplead: To lead upward. [Obs.]
uppertendom: The highest class in society; the upper ten. See Upper ten,under Upper. [Colloq.]
uprist: Uprising. [Obs.] Chaucer.
upstir: Insurrection; commotion; disturbance. [Obs.] Sir J. Cheke.
uranic: Pertaining to, resembling, or containing uranium; specifically,designating those compounds in which uranium has a valence relativelyhigher than in uranous compounds.
uranitic: Of or pertaining to uranium; containing uranium.
urceolus: Any urn-shaped organ of a plant.
ureter: The duct which conveys the urine from the kidney to the bladderor cloaca. There are two ureters, one for each kidney.
urethrotomy: An incision of the urethra, esp. incision for relief ofurethral stricture.
urinometry: The estimation of the specific gravity of urine by theurinometer.
urn: A measure of capacity for liquids, containing about threegallons and a haft, wine measure. It was haft the amphora, and fourtimes the congius.
urnful: As much as an urn will hold; enough to fill an urn.
urobilin: A yellow pigment identical with hydrobilirubin, abundant in thehighly colored urine of fever, and also present in normal urine. SeeUrochrome.
urochordal: Of or pertaining to the Urochorda.
urocyst: The urinary bladder.
urodele: One of the Urodela.
urodelian: Of or pertaining to the Urodela.-- n.
urogastric: Behind the stomach; -- said of two lobes of the carapace ofcertain crustaceans.
uromere: Any one of the abdominal segments of an arthropod.
urostyle: A styliform process forming the posterior extremity of thevertebral column in some fishes and amphibians.
uroxanate: A salt of uroxanic acid.
urrhodin: Indigo red, a product of the decomposition, or oxidation, ofindican. It is sometimes found in the sediment of pathologicalurines. It is soluble in ether or alcohol, giving the solution abeautiful red color. Also called indigrubin.
usance: The time, fixed variously by the usage between differentcountries, when a bill of exchange is payable; as, a bill drawn onLondon at one usance, or at double usance.
usher: To introduce or escort, as an usher, forerunner, or harbinger;to forerun; -- sometimes followed by in or forth; as, to usher in astranger; to usher forth the guests; to usher a visitor into theroom.The stars that usher evening rose. Milton.The Examiner was ushered into the world by a letter, setting forththe great genius of the author. Addison.
usnic: Pertaining to, or designating, a complex acid obtained, as ayellow crystalline substance, from certain genera of lichens (Usnea,Parmelia, etc.).
usufruct: The right of using and enjoying the profits of an estate orother thing belonging to another, without impairing the substance.Burrill.
usurpant: Usurping; encroaching. [Obs.] Gauden.
ut: The first note in Guido's musical scale, now usually supersededby do. See Solmization.
utilization: The act of utilizing, or the state of being utilized.
utilize: To make useful; to turn to profitable account or use; to makeuse of; as, to utilize the whole power of a machine; to utilize one'sopportunities.In former ages, the mile-long corridors, with their numerous alcoves,might have been utilized as . . . dungeons. Hawthorne.
uvular: Of or pertaining to a uvula.
uvulatomy: The operation of removing the uvula.
uwarowite: Ouvarovite.
vacher: A keeper of stock or cattle; a herdsman. [Southwestern U. S.]Bartlett.
vacillant: Vacillating; wavering; fluctuating; irresolute.
vagrancy: The quality or state of being a vagrant; a wandering without asettled home; an unsettled condition; vagabondism.Threatened away into banishment and vagrancy. Barrow.
vainness: The quality or state of being vain.
valetudinarianism: The condition of a valetudinarian; a state of feeble health;infirmity.
validation: The act of giving validity. [R.] Knowles.
validness: The quality or state of being valid.
vallancy: A large wig that shades the face. [Obs.]
vallum: A rampart; a wall, as in a fortification.
valued: Highly regarded; esteemed; prized; as, a valued contributor; avalued friend. Valued policy. See under Policy.
valuer: One who values; an appraiser.
valvula: A little valve or fold; a valvelet; a valvule.
vanquisher: One who, or that which, vanquishes. Milton.
vap: That which is vapid, insipid, or lifeless; especially, thelifeless part of liquor or wine. [Obs.]In vain it is to wash a goblet, if you mean to put it nothing but thedead lees and vap of wine. Jer. Taylor.
vaporation: The act or process of converting into vapor, or of passing offin vapor; evaporation. [R.]
vaporization: The act or process of vaporizing, or the state of beingconverted into vapor; the artificial formation of vapor;specifically, the conversion of water into steam, as in a steamboiler.
varicosis: The formation of varices; varicosity.
varietas: A variety; -- used in giving scientific names, and oftenabbreviated to var.
variously: In various or different ways.
varying: a. & n. from Vary. Varying hare (Zoöl.), any hare or rabbitwhich becomes white in winter, especially the common hare of theNorthern United States and Canada.
vaulter: One who vaults; a leaper; a tumbler. B. Jonson.
vauquelinite: Chromate of copper and lead, of various shades of green.
vedro: A Russian liquid measure, equal to 3.249 gallons of U.S.standard measure, or 2.706 imperial gallons. McElrath.
vegetality: The quality or state of being vegetal, or exhibiting thosephysiological phenomena which are common to plants and animals. SeeVegetal, a., 2.
vehemency: Vehemence. [R.]The vehemency of your affection. Shak.
vehiculation: Movement of vehicles.
veinstone: The nonmetalliferous mineral or rock material which accompaniesthe ores in a vein, as quartz, calcite, barite, fluor spar, etc.; --called also veinstuff.
velarium: The marginal membrane of certain medusæ belonging to theDiscophora.
veldt: A region or tract of land; esp., the open field; grass country.[South Africa]
velivolant: Flying with sails; passing under full sail. [R.]
velleity: The lowest degree of desire; imperfect or incomplete volition.Locke.
vellicative: Having the power of vellicating, plucking, or twitching;causing vellication.
venally: In a venal manner.
veneracea: An extensive tribe of bivalve mollusks of which the genus Venusis the type. The shells are usually oval, or somewhat heartshaped,with a conspicuous lunule. See Venus.
venerator: One who venerates. Jer. Taylor
venerean: Devoted to the offices of Venus, or love; venereal. [Obs.] "Iam all venerean in feeling." Chaucer.
veney: A bout; a thrust; a venew. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.Three veneys for a dish of stewed prunes. Shak.
vengeful: Vindictive; retributive; revengeful. "Vengeful ire." Milton.-- Venge"ful*ly, adv.
venous: Of or pertaining to a vein or veins; as, the venous circulationof the blood.
venthole: A touchhole; a vent.
ventricle: A cavity, or one of the cavities, of an organ, as of the larynxor the brain; specifically, the posterior chamber, or one of the twoposterior chambers, of the heart, which receives the blood from theauricle and forces it out from the heart. See Heart.
ventriculite: Any one of numerous species of siliceous fossil spongesbelonging to Ventriculites and allied genera, characteristic of theCretaceous period.
ventrilocution: Ventriloquism.
ventriloquous: Of or pertaining to a ventriloquist or ventriloquism.
venturesome: Inclined to venture; not loth to run risk or danger; venturous;bold; daring; adventurous; as, a venturesome boy or act.-- Ven"ture*some*ly, adv.-- Ven"ture*some*ness, n.
veratrina: Same as Veratrine.
verbalize: To convert into a verb; to verbify.
verbarian: Of or pertaining to words; verbal. [R.] Coleridge.
verbarium: A game in word making. See Logomachy, 2.
verdancy: The quality or state of being verdant.
verdict: The answer of a jury given to the court concerning any matterof fact in any cause, civil or criminal, committed to theirexamination and determination; the finding or decision of a jury onthe matter legally submitted to them in the course of the trial of acause.
verdingale: See Farthingale. [Spelled also verdingall.] [Obs.]
verditure: The faintest and palest green.
veritas: The Bureau Veritas. See under Bureau.
vermicious: Of or pertaining to worms; wormy.
vermiform: Resembling a worm in form or motions; vermicular; as, thevermiform process of the cerebellum. Vermiform appendix (Anat.), aslender blind process of the cæcum in man and some other animals; --called also vermiform appendage, and vermiform process. Small solidbodies, such as grape seeds or cherry stones, sometimes lodge in it,causing serious, or even fatal, inflammation. See Illust. underDigestion.
vermilion: A bright red pigment consisting of mercuric sulphide, obtainedeither from the mineral cinnabar or artificially. It has a fine redcolor, and is much used in coloring sealing wax, in printing, etc.
verminly: Resembling vermin; in the manner of vermin. [Obs.] Gauden.
verriculate: Having thickset tufts of parallel hairs, bristles, or branches.
versatile: Capable of turning; freely movable; as, a versatile anther,which is fixed at one point to the filament, and hence is very easilyturned around; a versatile toe of a bird.-- Ver"sa*tile*ly, adv.-- -- Ver"sa*tile*ness, n.
verst: A Russian measure of length containing 3,500 English feet.[Written also werst.]
vertebral: Of or pertaining to a vertebræ, or the vertebral column;spinal; rachidian.
vertebrarterial: Of or pertaining to a vertebræ and an artery; -- said of theforamina in the transverse processes of cervical vertebræ and of thecanal which they form for the vertebral artery and vein.
verticle: An axis; hinge; a turning point. E. Waterhouse.
vervel: See Varvel.
very: True; real; actual; veritable.Whether thou be my very son Esau or not. Gen. xxvii. 21.He that covereth a transgression seeketh love; but he that repeatetha matter separateth very friends. Prov. xvii. 9.The very essence of truth is plainness and brightness. Milton.I looked on the consideration of public service or public ornament tobe real and very justice. Burke.
vese: Onset; rush; violent draught or wind. [Obs.] Chaucer.
vesical: Of or pertaining to the bladder. Dunglison.
vesicle: A bladderlike vessel; a membranous cavity; a cyst; a cell.Specifically
vestibular: Of or pertaining to a vestibule; like a vestibule.
vestibule: The porch or entrance into a house; a hall or antechamber nextthe entrance; a lobby; a porch; a hall. Vestibule of the ear. (Anat.)See under Ear.-- Vestibule of the vulva (Anat.), a triangular space between thenymphæ, in which the orifice of the urethra is situated.-- Vestibule train (Railroads), a train of passenger cars having thespace between the end doors of adjacent cars inclosed, so as to admitof leaving the doors open to provide for intercommunication betweenall the cars.
veteranize: To reënlist for service as a soldier. [U.S.] Gen. W. T.Sherman.
vetust: Venerable from antiquity; ancient; old. [Obs.]
viander: A feeder; an eater; also, one who provides viands, or food; ahost. [Obs.] Holinshed.
viatecture: The art of making roads or ways for traveling, including theconstruction of bridges, canals, viaducts, etc. [R.] R. Park.
viatic: Of or pertaining to a journey or traveling.
vibratile: Adapted to, or used in, vibratory motion; having the power ofvibrating; vibratory; as, the vibratile organs of insects.
vibratility: The quality or state of being vibratile; disposition tovibration or oscillation. Rush.
vibratiuncle: A small vibration. [R.] Chambers.
vibrissa: One of the specialized or tactile hairs which grow about thenostrils, or on other parts of the face, in many animals, as the so-called whiskers of the cat, and the hairs of the nostrils of man.
vicarian: A vicar. [Obs.] Marston.
vicary: A vicar. [Obs.]
vicety: Fault; defect; coarseness. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
victimize: To make a victim of, esp. by deception; to dupe; to cheat.
victor: Victorious. "The victor Greeks." Pope.
victress: A woman who wins a victory; a female victor.
victrice: A victress. [R.] B. Jonson.
videlicet: To wit; namely; -- often abbreviated to viz.
vierkleur: The four-colored flag of the South African Republic, orTransvaal, -- red, white, blue, and green.
vigorite: An explosive containing nitroglycerin. It is used in blasting.
villager: An inhabitant of a village.Brutus had rather be a villager Than to repute himself a son of RomeUnder these hard condition. Shak.
villatic: Of or pertaining to a farm or a village; rural. "Tame villaticfowl." Milton.
vincibleness: The quality or state of being vincible.
viner: A vinedresser. [Obs.]
vinous: Of or pertaining to wine; having the qualities of wine; as, avinous taste.
violin: A small instrument with four strings, played with a bow; afiddle.
violinist: A player on the violin.
virility: The quality or state of being virile; developed manhood;manliness; specif., the power of procreation; as, exhaustion."Virility of visage." Holland.
virtually: In a virtual manner; in efficacy or effect only, and notactually; to all intents and purposes; practically.
virtue: One of the orders of the celestial hierarchy.Thrones, dominations, princedoms, virtues, powers. Milton.Cardinal virtues. See under Cardinal, a.-- In, or By, virtue of, through the force of; by authority of. "Heused to travel through Greece by virtue of this fable, which procuredhim reception in all the towns." Addison. "This they shall attain,partly in virtue of the promise made by God, and partly in virtue ofpiety." Atterbury.-- Theological virtues, the three virtues, faith, hope, and charity.See 1 Cor. xiii. 13.
visaged: Having a visage. Shak.
viscidity: The quality or state of being viscid; also, that which isviscid; glutinous concretion; stickiness.
viscoidal: Somewhat viscous. Cf. Mobile, a., 2.
viscus: One of the organs, as the brain, heart, or stomach, in thegreat cavities of the body of an animal; -- especially used in theplural, and applied to the organs contained in the abdomen.
visitation: The act of a naval commander who visits, or enters on board, avessel belonging to another nation, for the purpose of ascertainingher character and object, but without claiming or exercising a rightof searching the vessel. It is, however, usually coupled with theright of search (see under Search), visitation being used for thepurpose of search.
visiting: a. & vb. n. from Visit. Visiting ant. (Zoöl.) See Driver ant,under Driver.-- Visiting book, a book in which a record of visits received, made,and to be made, is kept. Thackeray.-- Visiting card. See under Card.
vitally: In a vital manner.
vitelline: Of or pertaining to the yolk of eggs; as, the vitellinemembrane, a smooth, transparent membrane surrounding the vitellus.
vitilitigation: Cavilous litigation; cavillation. [Obs.] Hudibras.
vitis: A genus of plants including all true grapevines.
vitrify: To convert into, or cause to resemble, glass or a glassysubstance, by heat and fusion.
vituperable: Liable to, or deserving, vituperation, or severe censure.
vivification: One of the changes of assimilation, in which proteid matterwhich has been transformed, and made a part of the tissue or tissuecells, is endowed with life, and thus enabled to manifest thephenomena of irritability, contractility, etc. McKendrick.
vivify: To endue with life; to make to be living; to quicken; toanimate.Sitting on eggs doth vivify, not nourish. Bacon.
viviparity: The quality or condition of being viviparous. H. Spencer.
viviparous: Producing young in a living state, as most mammals, or as thoseplants the offspring of which are produced alive, either by bulbsinstead of seeds, or by the seeds themselves germinating on theplant, instead of falling, as they usually do; -- opposed tooviparous. Viviparous fish. (Zoöl.) See Embiotocoid.-- Viviparous shell (Zoöl.), any one of numerous species ofoperculated fresh-water gastropods belonging to Viviparus, Melantho,and allied genera. Their young, when born, have a well-developedspiral shell.
vocalic: Of or pertaining to vowel sounds; consisting of the vowelsounds. Earle.The Gaelic language being uncommonly vocalic. Sir W. Scott.
vociferate: To cry out with vehemence; to exclaim; to bawl; to clamor.Cowper.
voiceful: Having a voice or vocal quality; having a loud voice or manyvoices; vocal; sounding.Beheld the Iliad and the Odyssey Rise to the swelling of the voicefulsea. Coleridge.
voiceless: Not sounded with voice; as, a voiceless consonant; surd.Voiceless stop (Phon.), a consonant made with no audible sound exceptin the transition to or from another sound; a surd mute, as p, t, k.-- Voice"less*ly, adv.-- Voice"less*ness, n.
void: Of no legal force or effect, incapable of confirmation orratification; null. Cf. Voidable, 2. Void space (Physics), a vacuum.
volar: Of or pertaining to the palm of the hand or the sole of thefoot.
volary: See Volery. [Obs.]
volatilize: To render volatile; to cause to exhale or evaporate; to causeto pass off in vapor.The water . . . dissolving the oil, and volatilizing it by theaction. Sir I. Newton.
volborthite: A mineral occurring in small six-sided tabular crystals of agreen or yellow color. It is a hydrous vanadate of copper and lime.
volost: In the greater part of Russia, a division for local governmentconsisting of a group of mirs, or village communities; a canton.
volow: To baptize; -- used in contempt by the Reformers. [Obs.]Tyndale.
voltammeter: A wattmeter.
volupere: A woman's cap. [Obs.] Chaucer.
voluta: Any one of numerous species of large, handsome marinegastropods belonging to Voluta and allied genera.
voodoo: Of or pertaining to voodooism, or a voodoo; as, voodooincantations.
voodooism: A degraded form of superstition and sorcery, said to includehuman sacrifices and cannibalism in some of its rites. It isprevalent among the negroes of Hayti, and to some extent in theUnited States, and is regarded as a relic of African barbarism.
voracious: Greedy in eating; very hungry; eager to devour or swallow;ravenous; gluttonous; edacious; rapacious; as, a voracious man orappetite; a voracious gulf or whirlpool. Dampier.-- Vo*ra"cious*ly, adv.-- Vo*ra"cious*ness, n.
vortical: Of or pertaining to a vortex or vortexes; resembling a vortexin form or motion; whirling; as, a vortical motion.-- Vor"ti*cal*ly, adv.
votive: Given by vow, or in fulfillment of a vow; consecrated by a vow;devoted; as, votive offerings; a votive tablet. "Votive incense."Keble.We reached a votive stone, that bears the name Of Aloys Reding.Wordsworth.Embellishments of flowers and votive garlands. Motley.Votive medal, a medal struck in grateful commemoration of someauspicious event.-- Votive offering, an offering in fulfillment of a religious vow,as of one's person or property.-- Vo"tive*ly, adv.-- Vo"tive*ness, n.
votress: A votaress. Dryden.
vraisemblance: The appearance of truth; verisimilitude.
vulnerary: Useful in healing wounds; adapted to the cure of externalinjuries; as, vulnerary plants or potions. "Such vulnerary remedies."Sir W. Scott.-- n. Etym
vulturine: Of or pertaining to a vulture; resembling a vulture inqualities or looks; as, the vulturine sea eagle (GypohieraxAngolensis); vulturine rapacity.The vulturine nose, which smells nothing but corruption, is no creditto its possessor. C. Kingsley.
vyce: A kind of clamp with gimlet points for holding a barrel headwhile the staves are being closed around it. Knight.
w: W, the twenty-third letter of the English alphabet, is usuallya consonant, but sometimes it is a vowel, forming the second elementof certain diphthongs, as in few, how. It takes its written form andits name from the repetition of a V, this being the original form ofthe Roman capital letter which we call U. Etymologically it is mostrelated to v and u. See V, and U. Some of the uneducated classes inEngland, especially in London, confuse w and v, substituting the onefor the other, as weal for veal, and veal for weal; wine for vine,and vine for wine, etc. See Guide to Pronunciation, §§ 266-268.
wagati: A small East Indian wild cat (Felis wagati), regarded by someas a variety of the leopard cat.
wagel: See Waggel.
wagering: Hazarding; pertaining to the act of one who wagers. Wageringpolicy. (Com.) See Wager policy, under Policy.
waggle: To reel, sway, or move from side to side; to move with awagging motion; to waddle.Why do you go nodding and waggling so L'Estrange.
wailer: One who wails or laments.
wainage: A finding of carriages, carts, etc., for the transportation ofgoods, produce, etc. Ainsworth.
wait: Hautboys, or oboes, played by town musicians; not used in thesingular. [Obs.] Halliwell.
wake: The track left by a vessel in the water; by extension, anytrack; as, the wake of an army.This effect followed immediately in the wake of his earliestexertions. De Quincey.Several humbler persons . . . formed quite a procession in the dustywake of his chariot wheels. Thackeray.
wakener: One who wakens.
waldgrave: In the old German empire, the head forest keeper.
walk: To subject, as cloth or yarn, to the fulling process; to full.[Obs. or Scot.] To walk the plank, to walk off the plank into thewater and be drowned; -- an expression derived from the practice ofpirates who extended a plank from the side of a ship, and compelledthose whom they would drown to walk off into the water; figuratively,to vacate an office by compulsion. Bartlett.
wallaba: A leguminous tree (Eperua falcata) of Demerara, with pinnateleaves and clusters of red flowers. The reddish brown wood is usedfor palings and shingles. J. Smith (Dict. Econ. Plants).
wallflower: A perennial, cruciferous plant (Cheiranthus Cheiri), withsweet-scented flowers varying in color from yellow to orange and deepred. In Europe it very common on old walls.
waly: An exclamation of grief. [Obs. or Prov. Eng. & Scot.]
wammel: To move irregularly or awkwardly; to wamble, or wabble. [Prov.Eng.]
wang: See Whang. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.]
wanger: A pillow for the cheek; a pillow. [Obs. & R.]His bright helm was his wanger. Chaucer.
wankle: Not to be depended on; weak; unstable. [Prov. Eng.] Grose.
wapacut: The American hawk owl. See under Hawk.
wapatoo: The edible tuber of a species of arrowhead (Sagittariavariabilis); -- so called by the Indians of Oregon. [Written alsowappato.]
wappened: A word of doubtful meaning used once by Shakespeare.This [gold] is itThat makes the wappen'd widow wed again.
warlikeness: Quality of being warlike.
warm: Having yellow or red for a basis, or in their composition; --said of colors, and opposed to cold which is of blue and itscompounds.
warmness: Warmth. Chaucer.
warranty: A covenant real, whereby the grantor of an estate of freeholdand his heirs were bound to warrant and defend the title, and, incase of eviction by title paramount, to yield other lands of equalvalue in recompense. This warranty has long singe become obsolete,and its place supplied by personal covenants for title. Among theseis the covenant of warranty, which runs with the land, and is in thenature of a real covenant. Kent.
warriangle: See Wariangle. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.]
warrin: An Australian lorikeet (Trichoglossus multicolor) remarkablefor the variety and brilliancy of its colors; -- called also blue-bellied lorikeet, and blue-bellied parrot.
warrior: A man engaged or experienced in war, or in the military life; asoldier; a champion.Warriors old with ordered spear and shield. Milton.Warrior ant (Zoöl.), a reddish ant (Formica sanguinea) native ofEurope and America. It is one of the species which move in armies tocapture and enslave other ants.
wart: A small, usually hard, tumor on the skin formed by enlargementof its vascular papillæ, and thickening of the epidermis which coversthem.
washdish: Same as Washerwoman, 2. [Prov. Eng.]
washerwoman: The pied wagtail; -- so called in allusion to its beating thewater with its tail while tripping along the leaves of water plants.[Prov. Eng.]
wassail: Of or pertaining to wassail, or to a wassail; convivial; as, awassail bowl. "Awassail candle, my lord, all tallow." Shak. Wassailbowl, a bowl in which wassail was mixed, and placed upon the table."Spiced wassail bowl." J. Fletcher. "When the cloth was removed, thebutler brought in a huge silver vessel . . . Its appearance washailed with acclamation, being the wassail bowl so renowned inChristmas festivity." W. Irving.-- Wassail cup, a cup from which wassail was drunk.
wasting: Causing waste; also, undergoing waste; diminishing; as, awasting disease; a wasting fortune. Wasting palsy (Med.), progressivemuscular atrophy. See under Progressive.
wastor: A waster; a thief. [Obs. or R.] [Written also wastour.]Chaucer. Southey.
waterer: One who, or that which, waters.
watermelon: The very large ovoid or roundish fruit of a cucurbitaceousplant (Citrullus vulgaris) of many varieties; also, the plant itself.The fruit sometimes weighs many pounds; its pulp is usually pink incolor, and full of a sweet watery juice. It is a native of tropicalAfrica, but is now cultivated in many countries. See Illust. ofMelon.
waterway: Heavy plank or timber extending fore and aft the whole lengthof a vessel's deck at the line of junction with the sides, forming achannel to the scuppers, which are cut through it. In iron vesselsthe waterway is variously constructed.
waxiness: Quality or state of being waxy.
waymark: A mark to guide in traveling.
wayward: Taking one's own way; disobedient; froward; perverse; willful.My wife is in a wayward mood. Shak.Wayward beauty doth not fancy move. Fairfax.Wilt thou forgive the wayward thought Keble.-- Way"ward*ly, adv.-- Way"ward*ness, n.
waywiser: An instrument for measuring the distance which one has traveledon the road; an odometer, pedometer, or perambulator.The waywiser to a coach, exactly measuring the miles, and showingthem by an index. Evelyn.
weakly: In a weak manner; with little strength or vigor; feebly.
weaver: A weaver bird.
wednesday: The fourth day of the week; the next day after Tuesday. AshWednesday. See in the Vocabulary.
weekwam: See Wigwam. [R.]
weeper: The capuchin. See Capuchin, 3 (a).
weetless: Unknowing; also, unknown; unmeaning. [Obs.] Spenser.
weighage: A duty or toil paid for weighing merchandise. Bouvier.
weighboard: Clay intersecting a vein. Weale.
weight: The resistance against which a machine acts, as opposed to thepower which moves it. [Obs.] Atomic weight. (Chem.) See under Atomic,and cf. Element.-- Dead weight, Feather weight, Heavy weight, Light weight, etc. Seeunder Dead, Feather, etc.-- Weight of observation (Astron. & Physics), a number expressingthe most probable relative value of each observation in determiningthe result of a series of observations of the same kind.
wekau: A small New Zealand owl (Sceloglaux albifacies). It has shortwings and long legs, and lives chiefly on the ground.
welder: One who welds, or unites pieces of iron, etc., by welding.
welldoer: One who does well; one who does good to another; a benefactor.
wellhead: A source, spring, or fountain.At the wellhead the purest streams arise. Spenser.Our public-school and university life is a great wellhead of new andirresponsible words. Earle.
wellwisher: One who wishes another well; one who is benevolently orfriendlily inclined.
welsbach: Of or pertaining to Auer von Welsbach or the incandescent gasburner invented by him. -- Welsbach burner, a burner in which thecombustion of a mixture of air and gas or vapor is employed to heatto incandescence a mantle composed of thoria and ceria. The mantle ismade by soaking a "stocking" in a solution of nitrates of thorium andcerium (approx. 99 
welsher: One who cheats at a horse race; one who bets, without a chanceof being able to pay; one who receives money to back certain horsesand absconds with it. [Written also welcher.] [Slang, Eng.]
wene: To ween. [Obs.] Chaucer.
went: imp. & p. p. of Wend; -- now obsolete except as the imperfectof go, with which it has no etymological connection. See Go.To the church both be they went. Chaucer.
wep: imp. of Weep.
wern: To refuse. [Obs.]He is too great a niggard that will wern A man to light a candle athis lantern. Chaucer.
wernerite: The common grayish or white variety of soapolite.
wesil: See Weasand. [Obs.]
westerner: A native or inhabitant of the west.
wevil: See Weevil.
whack: To strike; to beat; to give a heavy or resounding blow to; tothrash; to make with whacks. [Colloq.]Rodsmen were whackingtheir way through willow brakes. G. W. Cable.
whatnot: A kind of stand, or piece of furniture, having shelves forbooks, ornaments, etc.; an étagère.
whenceforth: From, or forth from, what or which place; whence. [Obs.]Spenser.
whereby: Wherever; -- a contracted and poetical form. Cowper.
wherefore: the reason why. [Colloq.]
whereform: From which; from which or what place. Tennyson.
wherever: At or in whatever place; wheresoever.He can not but love virtue wherever it is. Atterbury.
whew: A sound like a half-formed whistle, expressing astonishment,scorn, or dislike. Whew duck, the European widgeon. [Prov. Eng.]
whiggish: Of or pertaining to Whigs; partaking of, or characterized by,the principles of Whigs.
whimple: See Wimple.
whimsically: In a whimsical manner; freakishly.
whiner: One who, or that which, whines.
whipstalk: A whipstock.
whirry: To whir. [Obs.]
whirtle: A perforated steel die through which wires or tubes are drawnto form them.
whisking: An intoxicating liquor distilled from grain, potatoes, etc.,especially in Scotland, Ireland, and the United States. In the UnitedStates, whisky is generally distilled from maize, rye, or wheat, butin Scotland and Ireland it is often made from malted barley. Bourbonwhisky, corn whisky made in Bourbon County, Kentucky.-- Crooked whisky. See under Crooked.-- Whisky Jack (Zoöl.), the Canada jay (Perisoreus Canadensis). Itis noted for its fearless and familiar habits when it frequents thecamps of lumbermen in the winter season. Its color is dull grayishblue, lighter beneath. Called also moose bird.
whisp: See Wisp.
whistlefish: A gossat, or rockling; -- called also whistler, three-beardedrockling, sea loach, and sorghe.
whistlingly: In a whistling manner; shrilly.
whit: The smallest part or particle imaginable; a bit; a jot; aniota; -- generally used in an adverbial phrase in a negativesentence. "Samuel told him every whit." 1 Sam. iii. 18. "Every whitas great." South.So shall I no whit be behind in duty. Shak.It does not me a whit displease. Cowley.
whiteflaw: A whitlow. [Obs.] Holland.
whiten: To grow white; to turn or become white or whiter; as, the hairwhitens with age; the sea whitens with foam; the trees in springwhiten with blossoms.
whiterump: The American black-tailed godwit.
whitester: A bleacher of lines; a whitener; a whitster. [Prov. Eng.]
whitethorn: The hawthorn.
whittle: A knife; esp., a pocket, sheath, or clasp knife. "A butcher'swhittle." Dryden. "Rude whittles." Macaulay.He wore a Sheffield whittle in his hose. Betterton.
whobub: Hubbub. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.
whom: The objective case of who. See Who.
whoobub: Hubbub. [Obs.] Shak.
whoop: The hoopoe.
whoremonger: A whoremaster; a lecher; a man who frequents the society ofwhores.
wicker: Made of, or covered with, twigs or osiers, or wickerwork.Each one a little wicker basket had, Made of fine twigs, entrailédcuriously. Spenser.
wikke: Wicked. [Obs.] Chaucer.
wildering: A plant growing in a state of nature; especially, one which hasrun wild, or escaped from cultivation.
wincopipe: A little red flower, no doubt the pimpernel, which, when itopens in the morning, is supposed to bode a fair day. See Pimpernel.There is small red flower in the stubble fields, which country peoplecall the wincopipe; which if it opens in the morning, you may be surea fair day will follow. Bacon.
winder: One in a flight of steps which are curved in plan, so that eachtread is broader at one end than at the other; -- distinguished fromflyer.
windle: The redwing. [Prov. Eng.]
winesap: A variety of winter apple of medium size, deep red color, andyellowish flesh of a rich, rather subacid flavor.
winnard: The redwing. [Prov. Eng.]
winsing: Winsome. [Obs.] Chaucer.
winsomeness: The characteristic of being winsome; attractiveness of manner.J. R. Green.
winterkill: To kill by the cold, or exposure to the inclemency of winter;as, the wheat was winterkilled. [U. S.]
winterly: Like winter; wintry; cold; hence, disagreeable, cheerless; as,winterly news. [R.] Shak.The sir growing more winterly in the month of April. Camden.
wirche: To work [Obs.] Chaucer.
wise: Way of being or acting; manner; mode; fashion. "All armed incomplete wise." Spenser.To love her in my beste wyse. Chaucer.This song she sings in most commanding wise. Sir P. Sidney.Let not these blessings then, sent from above, Abused be, or spilt inprofane wise. Fairfax.
witful: Wise; sensible. [R.] Chapman.
withe: An iron attachment on one end of a mast or boom, with a ring,through which another mast or boom is rigged out and secured; awythe. R. H. Dana, Jr.
witing: Knowledge. [Obs.] "Withouten witing of any other wight."Chaucer.
wittingly: Knowingly; with knowledge; by design.
witworm: One who, or that which, feeds on or destroys wit. [Obs.] B.Jonson.
wively: Wifely. [Obs.] Udall.
wo: See Woe. [Obs.] Chaucer.
wolves: pl. of Wolf.
womanish: Suitable to a woman, having the qualities of a woman;effeminate; not becoming a man; -- usually in a reproachful sense.See the Note under Effeminate. " Thy tears are womanish." Shak. "Womanish entreaties." Macaulay.A voice not soft, weak, piping, and womanish, but audible, strong,and manlike. Ascham.-- Wom"an*ish*ly, adv.-- Wom"an*ish*ness, n.
womb: The uterus. See Uterus.
wonderingly: In a wondering manner.
wonderous: Same as Wondrous.
wone: To dwell; to abide. [Obs.] Piers Plowman.Their habitation in which they woned. Chaucer.
wontedness: The quality or state of being accustomed. [R.] Eikon Basilike.
woodbind: Woodbine. Dryden.A garland . . . of woodbind or hawthorn leaves. Chaucer.
woodcock: Any one of several species of long-billed limicoline birdsbelonging to the genera Scolopax and Philohela. They are mostlynocturnal in their habits, and are highly esteemed as game birds.
woodcut: An engraving on wood; also, a print from it. Same as Wood cut,under Wood.
woodly: In a wood, mad, or raving manner; madly; furiously. [Obs.]Chaucer.
woodmeil: See Wadmol.
woodstone: A striped variety of hornstone, resembling wood in appearance.
woodworm: See Wood worm, under Wood.
woold: To wind, or wrap; especially, to wind a rope round, as a mastor yard made of two or more pieces, at the place where it has beenfished or scarfed, in order to strengthen it.
woolder: A stick used to tighten the rope in woolding.
wooled: Having (such) wool; as, a fine-wooled sheep.
woolly: Clothed with a fine, curly pubescence resembling wool. Woollybear (Zoöl.), the hairy larva of several species of bombycid moths.The most common species in the United States are the salt-marshcaterpillar (see under Salt), the black and red woolly bear, or larvaof the Isabella moth (see Illust., under Isabella Moth), and theyellow woolly bear, or larva of the American ermine moth (SpilosomaVirginica).-- Woolly butt (Bot.), an Australian tree (Eucalyptus longifolia),so named because of its fibrous bark.-- Woolly louse (Zoöl.), a plant louse (Schizoneura, or Erisoma,lanigera) which is often very injurious to the apple tree. It iscovered with a dense coat of white filaments somewhat resembling finewool or cotton. In exists in two forms, one of which infests theroots, the other the branches. See Illust. under Blight.-- Woolly macaco (Zoöl.), the mongoose lemur.-- Woolly maki (Zoöl.), a long-tailed lemur (Indris laniger) nativeof Madagascar, having fur somewhat like wool; -- called also avahi,and woolly lemur.-- Woolly monkey (Zoöl.), any South American monkey of the genusLagothrix, as the caparro.-- Woolly rhinoceros (Paleon.), an extinct rhinoceros (Rhinocerostichorhinus) which inhabited the arctic regions, and was covered witha dense coat of woolly hair. It has been found frozen in the ice ofSiberia, with the flesh and hair well preserved.
wordle: One of several pivoted pieces forming the throat of anadjustable die used in drawing wire, lead pipe, etc. Knight.
workbag: A bag for holding implements or materials for work; especially,a reticule, or bag for holding needlework, and the like.
workfellow: One engaged in the same work with another; a companion in work.
workmanlike: Becoming a workman, especially a skillful one; skillful; wellperformed.
workshop: A shop where any manufacture or handiwork is carried on.
worldling: A person whose soul is set upon gaining temporal possessions;one devoted to this world and its enjoyments.A foutre for the world and worldlings base. Shak.If we consider the expectations of futurity, the worldling gives upthe argument. Rogers.And worldlings blot the temple's gold. Keble.
wormil: Any botfly larva which burrows in or beneath the skin ofdomestic and wild animals, thus producing sores. They belong tovarious species of Hypoderma and allied genera. Domestic cattle areoften infested by a large species. See Gadfly. Called also warble,and worble. [Written also wormal, wormul, and wornil.]
worrier: One who worries.
worthily: In a worthy manner; excellently; deservedly; according tomerit; justly; suitably; becomingly.You worthily succeed not only to the honors of your ancestors, butalso to their virtues. Dryden.Some may very worthily deserve to be hated. South.
worthy: A man of eminent worth or value; one distinguished for usefuland estimable qualities; a person of conspicuous desert; -- much usedin the plural; as, the worthies of the church; political worthies;military worthies.The blood of ancient worthies in his veins. Cowper.
woven: p. p. of Weave. Woven paper, or Wove paper, writing paperhaving an even, uniform surface, without watermarks.
wraw: Angry; vexed; wrathful. [Obs.]With this speech the cock wex wroth and wraw. Chaucer.
wreaken: p. p. of Wreak. Chaucer.
wreckfish: A stone bass.
wrench: The system made up of a force and a couple of forces in a planeperpendicular to that force. Any number of forces acting at anypoints upon a rigid body may be compounded so as to be equivalent toa wrench. Carriage wrench, a wrench adapted for removing ortightening the nuts that confine the wheels on the axles, or forturning the other nuts or bolts of a carriage or wagon.-- Monkey wrench. See under Monkey.-- Wrench hammer, a wrench with the end shaped so as to admit ofbeing used as a hammer.
wringstaff: A strong piece of plank used in applying wringbolts.
wrist: The joint, or the region of the joint, between the hand and thearm; the carpus. See Carpus.He took me by the wrist, and held me hard. Shak.
writership: The office of a writer.
wroken: p. p. of Wreak. Chaucer.
wrongful: Full of wrong; injurious; unjust; unfair; as, a wrongful takingof property; wrongful dealing.-- Wrong"ful*ly, adv.-- Wrong"ful*ness, n.
wronghead: A person of a perverse understanding or obstinate character.[R.]
wull: See 2d Will.Pour out to all that wull. Spenser.
wynn: A kind of timber truck, or carriage.
xanthinine: A complex nitrogenous substance related to urea and uric acid,produced as a white powder; -- so called because it forms yellowsalts, and because its solution forms a blue fluorescence likequinine.
xanthorhoea: A genus of endogenous plants, native to Australia, having athick, sometimes arborescent, stem, and long grasslike leaves. SeeGrass tree.
xanthospermous: Having yellow seeds.
xanthous: Yellow; specifically (Ethnol.), of or pertaining to those racesof man which have yellowish, red, auburn, or brown hair.
xerophilous: Drought-loving; able withstand the absence or lack of moisture.Plants which are peculiarly adapted to dry climates are termed by DeCandolle xerophilous. Goodale.
xiphophyllous: Having sword-shaped leaves.
xiphura: Same as Limuloidea. Called also Xiphosura. X ray. See underRay.
xyletic: Pertaining to, or designating, a complex acid related tomesitylenic acid, obtained as a white crystalline substance by theaction of sodium and carbon dioxide on crude xylenol.
xylitone: A yellow oil having a geraniumlike odor, produced as a sideproduct in making phorone; -- called also xylite oil.
xylographer: One who practices xylography.
xylophaga: A genus of marine bivalves which bore holes in wood. They areallied to Pholas.
xylophilan: One of a tribe of beetles (Xylophili) whose larvæ live ondecayed wood.
yaksha: A kind of demigod attendant on Kuvera, the god of wealth.
yamma: The llama.
yang: The cry of the wild goose; a honk.
yankeeism: A Yankee idiom, word, custom, or the like. Lowell.
yardarm: Either half of a square-rigged vessel's yard, from the centeror mast to the end.
yardwand: A yardstick. Tennyson.
yarn: One of the threads of which the strands of a rope are composed.
yarnen: Made of yarn; consisting of yarn. [Obs.] "A pair of yarnenstocks." Turbervile.
yaulp: To yaup.
yautia: In Porto Rico, any of several araceous plants or their starchyedible roots, which are cooked and eaten like yams or potatoes, asthe taro.
yawd: A jade; an old horse or mare. [Written also yaud.] [Prov. Eng.& Scot.] Grose.
ycleped: Called; named; -- obsolete, except in archaic or humorouswritings. [Spelt also yclept.]It is full fair to ben yclept madame. Chaucer.But come, thou goddess fair and free. In heaven ycleped Euphrosyne.Milton.Those charming little missives ycleped valentines. Lamb.
yeanling: A lamb or a kid; an eanling. Shak.
yearling: An animal one year old, or in the second year of its age; --applied chiefly to cattle, sheep, and horses.
yearningly: With yearning.
yellowfin: A large squeteague.
yellowwood: The wood of any one of several different kinds of trees; also,any one of the trees themselves. Among the trees so called are theCladrastis tinctoria, an American leguminous tree; the severalspecies of prickly ash (Xanthoxylum); the Australian FlindersiaOxleyana, a tree related to the mahogany; certain South Africanspecies of Podocarpus, trees related to the yew; the East IndianPodocarpus latifolia; and the true satinwood (Chloroxylon Swietenia).All these Old World trees furnish valuable timber.
yes: Ay; yea; -- a word which expresses affirmation or consent; --opposed to Ant
yesternoon: The noon of yesterday; the noon last past.
yive: To give. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ynambu: A South American tinamou (Rhynchotus rufescens); -- called alsoperdiz grande, and rufous tinamou. See Illust. of Tinamou.
yoga: A species of asceticism among the Hindoos, which consists in acomplete abstraction from all worldly objects, by which the votaryexpects to obtain union with the universal spirit, and to acquiresuperhuman faculties.
yokeage: See Rokeage. [Local, U. S.]
youthful: Also used figuratively. "The youthful season of the year."Shak.
yowl: To utter a loud, long, and mournful cry, as a dog; to howl; toyell.
yren: Iron. [Obs.] Chaucer.
yulan: A species of Magnolia (M. conspicua) with large white blossomsthat open before the leaves. See the Note under Magnolia.
zambo: The child of a mulatto and a negro; also, the child of anIndian and a negro; colloquially or humorously, a negro; a sambo.
zamindar: A landowner; also, a collector of land revenue; now, usually, akind of feudatory recognized as an actual proprietor so long as hepays to the government a certain fixed revenue. [Written alsozemindar.] [India]
zamouse: A West African buffalo (Bubalus brachyceros) having short hornsdepressed at the base, and large ears fringed internally with threerows of long hairs. It is destitute of a dewlap. Called also short-horned buffalo, and bush cow.
zampogna: A sort of bagpipe formerly in use among Italian peasants. It isnow almost obsolete. [Written also zampugna.]
zantiot: A native or inhabitant of Zante, one of the Ionian Islands.
zapas: See Army organization, above.
zarathustrism: See Zoroastrianism.
zealed: Full of zeal; characterized by zeal. [Obs.] "Zealed religion."Beau. & Fl.
zealot: One who is zealous; one who engages warmly in any cause, andpursues his object with earnestness and ardor; especially, one who isoverzealous, or carried away by his zeal; one absorbed in devotion toanything; an enthusiast; a fanatical partisan.Zealots for the one [tradition] were in hostile array against zealotsfor the other. Sir J. Stephen.In Ayrshire, Clydesdale, Nithisdale, Annandale, every parish wasvisited by these turbulent zealots. Macaulay.
zenana: The part of a dwelling appropriated to women. [India]
zeolite: A term now used to designate any one of a family of minerals,hydrous silicates of alumina, with lime, soda, potash, or rarelybaryta. Here are included natrolite, stilbite, analcime, chabazite,thomsonite, heulandite, and others. These species occur of secondaryorigin in the cavities of amygdaloid, basalt, and lava, also, lessfrequently, in granite and gneiss. So called because many of thesespecies intumesce before the blowpipe. Needle zeolite, needlestone;natrolite.
zerda: The fennec.
zeriba: Same as Zareba.
zillah: A district or local division, as of a province. [India]
zimocca: A sponge (Euspongia zimocca) of flat form and fine quality,from the Adriatic, about the Greek islands, and the coast of Barbary.
zincky: , Pertaining to zinc, or having its appearance. [Written alsozinky.]
zoanthodeme: The zooids of a compound anthozoan, collectively.
zona: A zone or band; a layer. Zona pellucida. Etym
zooecium: One of the cells or tubes which inclose the feeling zooids ofBryozoa. See Illust. of Sea Moss.
zopilote: The urubu, or American black vulture.
zorilla: Either one of two species of small African carnivores of thegenus Ictonyx allied to the weasels and skunks. [Written also zoril,and zorille.]
zounds: An exclamation formerly used as an oath, and an expression ofanger or wonder.
zuche: A stump of a tree. Cowell.
zufolo: A little flute or flageolet, especially that which is used toteach birds. [Written also zuffolo.]
zygantrum: See under Zygosphene.
zygenid: Any one of numerous species of moths of the family Zygænidæ,most of which are bright colored. The wood nymph and the vineforester are examples. Also used adjectively.
zygobranchiate: Of or pertaining to the Zygobranchia.
zymophyte: A bacteroid ferment.